# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Agenda

Monday 12 December 2020

- 07:00-08:00 Pacific Time
- 10:00-11:00 East Coast Time
- 15:00-16:00 UTC
- 15:00-16:00 UK Time
- 16:00-17:00 Central European Time
- 23:00-24:00 Beijing Time

## Location

Zoom meeting

- [us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761)
- Meeting ID: 851 9441 6761
- Find your local number: [us02web.zoom.us/u/kcVlqVA9vi](https://us02web.zoom.us/u/kcVlqVA9vi)

# Agenda topics

## Register of attendance and introductions

We are recording attendance at meetings, so OpenHW Group can track membership in accordance with article 4 of the membership agreement. This matters particularly when email ballots are held, to ensure the voters represent member organizations who are active on the group. The attendance records are can be seen in the [program](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/tree/master/program) directory of the [core-v-docs repository](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs).

## Review of actions

- **Alexander Fedorov and Duncan Bees.** Meet to consider full project launch for the IDE project.

  - Alexander and Duncan to report.

- **André Sintzoff, Duncan Bees and Philipp.** Meet to put together the Clang/LLVM full project proposal for TWG on 23 Nov 2020.

  - Complete: see agenda item [Report back from TWG](#report-back-from-twg).

- **Ivan Kravets, Duncan Bees and Alexander Fedorov.** Meet to discuss extending the IDE project proposal to include PlatformIO. Aim to produce a short explanation of the benefits to sell the proposal. Suggest combine with first action above.

  - Ivan, Duncan and Alexander to report.

- **Duncan Bees.** Convene a meeting of all parties interested in FreeRTOS to see if a preliminary project proposal is feasible.

  - Complete: see agenda item [Report back from TWG](#report-back-from-twg).

## Report back from TWG

Report by the chair and Duncan Bees (5 minutes allocated).

- CVE2 core family
- approval of PPL for Clang/LLVM
- approval of PPL for FreeRTOS, but needing a permanent project manager

## Continuous integration and test

This agenda item is being taken early, because Simon Cook can only join for the first 30 minutes of the meeting.

The question of when, where and how to use continuous integration and test is a concern for the wider OpenHW organization, an issue being addressed by Duncan Bees.

- Alexander Fedorov will present the CI&T environment he is using with the CORE-V IDE project
- Simon Cook will present his experience of using CI&T in the preparation of routine tool chain [downloads for CORE-V](https://www.embecosm.com/resources/tool-chain-downloads/#corev) (and others) at Embecosm.

## Reports from current projects

Active projects under the SW TG give a 5 minute status report each month.

- CORE-V IDE - Alexander Fedorov
- CORE-V GNU Tools - Jessica Mills
- CORE-V FreeRTOS - Robert Balas and Shteryana Shopova
- CORE-V Clang/LLVM - Philipp Krones and André Szintoff

## New potential projects

5-10 minutes per project.

- Hardware Abstraction Layer (HAL)

  - Discussion led by Florian Zaruba
  - Do we need something like [Arm CMSIS](https://developer.arm.com/tools-and-software/embedded/cmsis) or [SiFive Freedom Metal](https://github.com/sifive/freedom-metal)?
  - Something we can develop applications against and then run on different core and system incarnations

- Linux

  - With the development of the CVA6 architecture, particularly its 64-bit version, this will become an urgent priority.

- Extension of existing projects to CVA6 and CVE2

  - GNU tools and FreeRTOS are currently scoped for CV32E40P and need to be considered for CVA6 and CVE2.

## AOB

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets monthly at 07:00 Pacific Time on the second Monday of the month.

- 11 Jan 2021
- 08 Feb 2021
- 08 Mar 2021
- 12 Apr 2021
- 10 May 2021
- 14 Jun 2021
- 12 Jul 2021
- 09 Aug 2021
- 13 Sep 2021
- 11 Oct 2021
- 08 Nov 2021
- 13 Dec 2021

Jeremy Bennett, Chair\
Yunhai Shang, Vice-Chair
