# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Minutes

Monday 12 October 2020, 14:00 UTC

## Attendees

See separate [attendance register](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/blob/master/program/TGSoftware_Attendance_2020.md)

## Summary of actions

- **Zbigniew and Jean-Roch:** Prepare a preliminary project proposal for TWG on 26 October 2020.

- **Jeremy Bennett:** Commit ecosystem to main `core-v-sw` repo.

- **Zbigniew Chamski:** Make a pull request to add logos to the ecosystem.

- **Jingliang (Leo) Wang:** Consider whether to add FORCE-RISCV ISG to the ecosystem.

# Meeting topics

## Review of actions

- **Jeremy Bennett:** Submit preliminary project proposal for GNU Tools development to TWG meeting on 28 September 2020.

  - complete - see agenda item [Update from TWG](#update-from-twg).

- **Jeremy Bennett:** Revise the commercial ecosystem page in light of comments for review via Mattermost, with a view to sign-off at next month's meeting.

  - complete - see agenda item [Promoting the software ecosystems](#promoting-the-software-ecosystem).

## Update from TWG

Report by the chair

- CORE-V GNU Tools preliminary project proposal on 5 October 2020.
- pending approval of the CORE-V IDE preliminary project proposal.
- FORCE-RISCV ISG presented by Liang Peng for Futurewei. This has been accepted as preliminary project proposal
- John Martin of EMUS presented his proposal for ISA extension support in the CV32E40P core.

## Reports from current projects

### CORE-V GNU Tools

Jessica Mills of Embecosm presented current status. See the separate report in the [meeting-materials](../meeting-materials) directory.

Duncan Bees asked about possibility of achieving the GCC stage 3 gate in early November, allowing CORE-V to be supported in GCC 11.1 in 2021. Otherwise the next release is in 2022.  Critical to this will be solving the issues of vendor specific relocations with the RISC-V psABI team.

### CORE-V IDE

Since Alexander Fedorov is on vacation, there was no report this month.

## New potential projects

### CORE-V Clang/LLVM - Zbigniew Chamski

Working with Jean-Roch, also of Thales, has created a preliminary project proposal. Embecosm supports this.

Apache licensing means we can have open source core compiler and then individual users could make closed derivatives if they so chose.

**Action:** Zbigniew and Jean-Roch to prepare a preliminary project proposal for TWG on 26 October 2020.

## Promoting the software ecosystem

An initial proposal for presenting the commercial ecosystem within the main repository was presented last month.  This was welcomed and many proposals were made to improve the framework.  These improvements were reviewed and approved for committing.  Zbigniew Chamski noted that they would have more visual impact by incorporating logos.

**Action:** Jeremy Bennett to commit version as it stands to main core-v-sw repo.

**Action:** Zbigniew Chamski to make a pull request to add logos

**Action:** Jingliang (Leo) Wang to consider whether to add FORCE-RISCV ISG

## AOB

Duncan Bees presented his visual representation of timeline to show cross links across projects.

## Dates for future meetings

The group meets monthly at 07:00 Pacific Time on the second Monday of the month.

- 09 Nov 2020
- 14 Dec 2020
- 11 Jan 2020
- 08 Feb 2020
- 08 Mar 2020
- 12 Apr 2020
- 10 May 2020
- 14 Jun 2020
- 12 Jul 2020
- 09 Aug 2020
- 13 Sep 2020
- 11 Oct 2020
- 08 Nov 2020
- 13 Dec 2020


Jeremy Bennett, Chair
