# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Agenda

Monday 10 August 2020

- 07:00-08:00 Pacific Time
- 10:00-11:00 East Coast Time
- 15:00-16:00 UK Time
- 16:00-17:00 Central European Time
- 22:00-23:00 Beijing Time

## Location

Zoom meeting

- [us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761)
- Meeting ID: 851 9441 6761
- Find your local number: [us02web.zoom.us/u/kcVlqVA9vi](https://us02web.zoom.us/u/kcVlqVA9vi)

# Agenda topics

## Register of attendance

We are recording attendance at meetings, so OpenHW Group can track membership in accordance with article 4 of the membership agreement. This matters particularly when email ballots are held, to ensure the voters represent member organizations who are active on the group. The attendance records are can be seen in the [program](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/tree/master/program) directory of the [core-v-docs repository](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs).

Due to an error last month, no record of those attending was taken. As well as recording attendance at this meeting, the chair will ask those present to identify if they also attended our July meeting.

## Review of actions

- **Jeremy Bennett:** Ask the TWG to confirm the charter

  - see agenda item [Charter](#charter)

- **Mike Thompson and Alexander Fedorov:** Coordinate setting up a `core-v-ide` repository for experiments with Eclipse.

  - for now no additional software repos within the OpenHW Group organization
  - see also agenda item [IDEs](#ides)

- **Craig Blackmore:** Push detailed GNU plans to SW TG repository.

  - complete.
  - see also agenda item [GNU tools project](#gnu_tools_project)

- **Jeremy Bennett:** Convene meeting with cores group to identify priorities.

  - complete: scheduled for 13:00 UK time on Monday 10 August
  - see also agenda item [GNU tools project](#gnu_tools_project)

- **Florian Zaruba and Duncan Bees:** Pursue promotion of work of SW TG through the website.

  - Florian/Duncan to report

- **Andrea Barnard:** Coordinate OpenHW TV input with Jeremy Bennett

  - complete.

- **Jeremy Bennett:** Prototype a web page for promoting the software ecosystem and discuss via MM and email.

  - no progress since proposal at last meeting.
  - see agenda item [Promoting the software ecosystem](#promoting_the_software_ecosystem)

- **Duncan Bees:** Drive sorting out how we properly do promotion.

  - Duncan to report
  - see agenda item [Promoting the software ecosystem](#promoting_the_software_ecosystem)

## Charter

The TWG meeting approved the charter, but have decided to formally confirm the charter via an email vote from all member companies.  Pending this vote, the charter has been merged into the main core-v-sw repository

## GNU tools project

Embecosm has committed three additional staff for the next 8 weeks to work alongside Craig Blackmore on improving the GNU tool chain for CV32E40P.

The work will be based on Craig's analysis presented last month and available in the planning directory of the repository (see [gnu-toolchain-effort-estimate-13-jul-2020.md](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/planning/gnu-toolchain-effort-estimate-13-jul-2020.md>).  This envisaged 15 engineer months of effort to achieve a minimal tool chain to commercial standard.

There is a joint meeting with the Cores TG scheduled for 13:00 UK time on Monday 10 August to decide priorities. All are welcome to join, and the outcome will be presented during this agenda item.

## IDEs

Alexander Fedorov, leader of the IDE initiative for the Software TG, has been working closely with the team at Ashling to specify the requirements for an open soruce IDE (see [PR #11](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/pull/11>).

Alexander will present his work for comment and discussion.

## OpenHW TV
The third edition of OpenHW TV on Thursday 20 August will feature the SW Task
Group alonside the HW Task Group.  The panel will include Jeremy Bennett (Chair), Yunhai Syh (Vice-Chair) and Florian Zaruba (OpenHW Director for HW and SW TGs).  Craig Blackmore will present the work on the open source GNU tool chain, Roisin O'Keefe of Ashling will present both their proprietary IDE, RISCFree and the open source IDE being developed with Alexander and his team. Hugh Pollitt-Smith, Chair of the HW TG will present the digilent FPGA board with its prototype CV32E40P implementation.

Yunhai has suggested that we should give a status update on the work of the SW Task Group in all areas. So we shall seek information from the meeting on the status of any work n the following areas

- Clang/LLVM tool chain
- Operating systems (RTOS, &ast;nix, &ast;bsd)
- Modeling (ISS, cycle accurate, QEMU)
- IDEs - see separate agenda item [IDEs](#ides)
- Benchmarking
- Demo applications

(we already know the status of the GNU tool chain and IDE work).

## Promoting the software ecosystem

Our Charter's #1 goal is to create a thriving commercial ecosystem for CORE-V software tools, models and ecosystem.  We discussed last month the importance of promoting our members work, and driving interest to their websites.

Duncan took an action last month to see how we would coordinate this with overall OpenHW Group strategy.  He will report back at this meeting.

## AOB

## Dates for future meetings

The group meets monthly at 07:00 Pacific Time on the second Monday of the month.  I propose publishing a schedule for 2021 at next month's meeting.

- 14 Sep 2020
- 12 Oct 2020
- 09 Nov 2020
- 14 Dec 2020


Jeremy Bennett, Chair
