# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Agenda

Monday 14 September 2020

- 07:00-08:00 Pacific Time
- 10:00-11:00 East Coast Time
- 15:00-16:00 UK Time
- 16:00-17:00 Central European Time
- 22:00-23:00 Beijing Time

## Location

Zoom meeting

- [us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761)
- Meeting ID: 851 9441 6761
- Find your local number: [us02web.zoom.us/u/kcVlqVA9vi](https://us02web.zoom.us/u/kcVlqVA9vi)

# Agenda topics

## Register of attendance

We are recording attendance at meetings, so OpenHW Group can track membership in accordance with article 4 of the membership agreement. This matters particularly when email ballots are held, to ensure the voters represent member organizations who are active on the group. The attendance records are can be seen in the [program](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/tree/master/program) directory of the [core-v-docs repository](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs).

## Review of actions

- **Duncan Bees:** Post slides on promoting the SW ecosystem to the SW TG mailing list

  * complete: commits 00023d5 and c0f046c in the `core-v-sw` `repo
    meetings/materials` directory.

- **Jeremy Bennett:** Merge [PR #11](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/pull/11).

  * complete

- **Duncan Bees:** Take Alexander Fedorov through the new process of setting up the IDE subgroup.

  * complete

- **All:** advise on any status updates on Core-V software

  * complete: see report on IDEs and GNU tools later

## Open source Eclipse development tools

Frédéric Desbiens and Alexander Fedorov will be presenting on this subject at OSDForum today. I have asked Frédéric to speak to this group about how work on CORE-V IDEs fits into the overall Eclipse IDE ecosystem.

## GNU tool chain update

Mary Bennett will report on behalf of the Embecosm team who are building the first CORE-V tool chain.

I propose submitting a formal project proposal to the TWG meeting at the end of September 2020.

## Promoting the software ecosystem

Our Charter's #1 goal is to create a thriving commercial ecosystem for CORE-V software tools, models and ecosystem as we have discussed in previous months.  If software companies, both proprietary and open source, are to thrive and support CORE-V, then OpenHW Group must be a business driver for them.

The TWG is now clear that the main focus of the website will be via the various TG repositories, so we must use our own repository to achieve this.  To achieve this, I have prepared a draft alternative [front page](https://github.com/jeremybennett/core-v-sw/blob/jpb-promoting-sw/README.md) which links to a detailed [ecosystem page](https://github.com/jeremybennett/core-v-sw/blob/jpb-promoting-sw/ecosystem.md) listing all contributors to that ecosystem.

I should like to gain feedback on this from the meeting. When we have this in the form we are happy with, I shall reach out to all members to ensure we have the detailed content correct and then publish on our main repository.

## AOB

## Dates for future meetings

The group meets monthly at 07:00 Pacific Time on the second Monday of the month.  I include dates for 2021.

- 12 Oct 2020
- 09 Nov 2020
- 14 Dec 2020
- 11 Jan 2020
- 08 Feb 2020
- 08 Mar 2020
- 12 Apr 2020
- 10 May 2020
- 14 Jun 2020
- 12 Jul 2020
- 09 Aug 2020
- 13 Sep 2020
- 11 Oct 2020
- 08 Nov 2020
- 13 Dec 2020

Jeremy Bennett, Chair
