# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Minutes

Monday 09 November 2020, 15:00 UTC

## Attendees

See separate [attendance register](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/blob/master/program/TGSoftware_Attendance_2020.md)

## Summary of actions

- **Duncan Bees/Florian Zaruba** to convene a tutorial 1 hour meeting on practical use of CI&T.
- **Mike Thompson** to convene meeting for those interested in pure software platform models.
- **Jeremy Bennett** to schedule time for a fuller discussion of a Hardware Abstraction Layer at future meetings.

# Meeting topics

## Review of actions

- **Alexander Fedorov and Duncan Bees.** Meet to consider full project launch for the IDE project.

  - In progress: meeting to take place shortly.

- **André Sintzoff, Duncan Bees and Philipp.** Meet to put together the Clang/LLVM full project proposal for TWG on 23 Nov 2020.

  - Complete: see agenda item [Report back from TWG](#report-back-from-twg).

- **Ivan Kravets, Duncan Bees and Alexander Fedorov.** Meet to discuss extending the IDE project proposal to include PlatformIO. Aim to produce a short explanation of the benefits to sell the proposal. Suggest combine with first action above.

  - In progress: see agenda item [CORE-V IDE](#core-v-ide)

- **Duncan Bees.** Convene a meeting of all parties interested in FreeRTOS to see if a preliminary project proposal is feasible.

  - Complete: see agenda item [Report back from TWG](#report-back-from-twg).

## Report back from TWG

The Chair and Duncan Bees reported back.

- CVE2 core family was proposed by NXP
- approval of PPL for Clang/LLVM
- approval of PPL for FreeRTOS, but needing a permanent project manager
- Duncan Bees is preparing a process to ensure commits to OpenHW repositories can subsqeuently be pushed upstream.  More details in a few days.

## Continuous integration and test (CI&T)

This is matter of growing importance across the OpenHW Group.

Alexander Fedorov reported of his experience with the IDE project.  Key points:

- Use of GitHub actions to check validity of commit and that tools will build

  - automatically triggered on commit

- Use Jenkins for continous delivery

  - can use to schedule whatever commands you wish

- Other projects use Gerrit for automated code review

Simon Cook reported on his experience with the CORE-V GNU tool chains from Embecosm.  Key points:

- Similar use of Jenkins to Alexander Fedorov for continuous delivery

  - not currently triggered on commit - too many upstream commits

- Ensure you only use documentation later than Jenkins 2.0 and based on use of Jenkins pipeline

- Build all tools within a docker image

- Ensure you write it all down (e.g use Groovy) and capture that in a repository

Questions

- Q. Do you store the docker images

  - A. We rebuild the docker image cleanly every time

**ACTION:** Duncan Bees/Florian Zaruba to convene a tutorial 1 hour meeting on practical use of CI&T.

## Reports from current projects

### CORE-V IDE

Alexander Fedorov presented his report.

- have initial release upstream
- now looking at future releases
- need sample applications to improve IDE

  - started to get feedback and suggestions of suitable applications

- meeting with Duncan Bees to discuss full Project Launch (PL)

- discussing how to add PlatformIO within Eclipse CDT

Questions

- Q. How soon before can download IDE with end-to-end experience with FPGA

  - A. Currently focusing on emulation, does not yet have a board.  Willing to work with anyone who has FPGA board working.

- Q. What do you mean by emulation?

  - A. Means purely software model.  Would like QEMU integration as well.

**ACTION:** Mike Thompson to convene meeting for those interested in pure software platform models.

### CORE-V GNU Tools

Jessica Mills presented her [monthly report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/gnu-tools/monthly-report-2020-12-14.md).

### CORE-V FreeRTOS

Robert Balas and Shteryana Shopova presented their [monthly report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/freertos/monthly-report-14-dec-20.md)

### CORE-V Clang/LLVM

André Szintoff and Philipp Krones presented their [monthly report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/clang-llvm/monthly-report-2020-12-14.md)

Questions

- Q. Does Philipp Krones' work use GNU ld or LLD?

  - A. GNU ld. LLD is not yet complete for RISC-V

## New potential projects

### Hardware Abstraction Layer

Florian Zaruba introduced the concept of a hardware abstraction layer.  Possibly something like [Arm CMSIS](https://developer.arm.com/tools-and-software/embedded/cmsis) or [SiFive Freedom Metal](https://github.com/sifive/freedom-metal).  Something we can develop applications against and then run on different core and system incarnations.

Because the meeting was short of time, the decision was taken to schedule a fuller discussion at next month's meeting.

**ACTION:** Jeremy Bennett to schedule time for a fuller discussion of a Hardware Abstraction Layer at future meetings.

### Linux for CORE-V

Deferred to a later meeting.

### Extendin existing projects to CVA6 and CVE2

Deferred to a later meeting.

## AOB

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets monthly at 07:00 Pacific Time on the second Monday of the month.

- 11 Jan 2020
- 08 Feb 2020
- 08 Mar 2020
- 12 Apr 2020
- 10 May 2020
- 14 Jun 2020
- 12 Jul 2020
- 09 Aug 2020
- 13 Sep 2020
- 11 Oct 2020
- 08 Nov 2020
- 13 Dec 2020

Jeremy Bennett, Chair\
Yunhai Shang, Vice-Chair
