# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Agenda

Monday 11 Mar 2024

- 08:00-09:00 Pacific Time
- 11:00-12:00 East Coast Time
- 15:00-16:00 UTC
- 15:00-16:00 UK Time
- 16:00-17:00 Central European Time
- 23:00-00:00 Beijing Time

## Location

Zoom meeting.

- [us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761?pwd=M2kwRzNCUG82UFlJT0NMbnJPSXBCZz09](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761?pwd=M2kwRzNCUG82UFlJT0NMbnJPSXBCZz09)
- Meeting ID: 851 9441 6761
- Find your local number: [us02web.zoom.us/u/kuUW3yscL](https://us02web.zoom.us/u/kuUW3yscL)

# Agenda topics

## Register of attendance, introductions and apologies

We are recording attendance at meetings, so OpenHW Group can track membership in accordance with article 4 of the membership agreement. This matters particularly when email ballots are held, to ensure the voters represent member organizations who are active on the group. The attendance records can be seen in the [program](https://github.com/openhwgroup/programs) directory.

## Succession planning (5 minutes allocated)

We are still missing a vice-chair. If you might be interested in taking this role, please speak to me or Duncan Bees.

## Review of actions (5 minutes allocated)

- **Nandni Jamnadas** and **Chunyu Liao** to use upstream QEMU for CORE-V to test respectively the GNU and LLVM tool chains.
  - IN PROGRESS, with assistance on the GNU side from **Mary Bennett** and  **Pietra Ferreira**.

- **Promod Kumar** latest updates on the integration of the QEMU project in the SDK QEMU support.

## Report back from TWG (5 minutes allocated)

Duncan Bees to report on key issues affecting the Software TG from the TWG meetings.

Reminder:
- [Project dashboard](https://github.com/openhwgroup/programs/blob/master/dashboard/Dashboard_SpreadSheetFriendly.md) has been updated:
  - **Action:** All please check all project dashboard data for software task-groups.

## Reports from current projects (10 minutes allocated)

Active projects under the Software Task Group will have provided a written report in advance (see the [project specific directories](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects) of the [core-v-sw](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw) repository. We also have one project under the Hardware Task Group which also reports into us.

Each project leader is asked to present any key issues for which community input from the meeting is required.  Project leaders will also take any questions.

- CORE-V GNU Tools for CV32E40PV2 - Nandni Jamnadas/Mary Bennett
- CORE-V FreeRTOS - Joe Julicher
- CORE-V Clang/LLVM for CV32E40PV2 - Paolo Savini and Chunyu Liao
- CORE-V SDK/IDE - Hugh O'Keefe
- CORE-V CV32E40PV2 Verilator modeling for software - Jeremy Bennett

## RTL freeze checklist (10 minutes allocated + 5 minutes Q&A) - **Pascal Gouedo**, **Mike Thompson**

Presentation of a proposed checklist of actions and requirements to reach the RTL freeze of software projects.

## RISE proposal for RISC-V SW Platform (15 minutes allocated + 5 minutes Q&A) **Duncan Bees**, **Honathan Balkind**, **Moiz Hussain**, **Redbeard**.

Presentation of the draft of the project proposal for a RISC-V vendor neutral software platform that will potentially become a RFP proposal for the RISE working group.

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets every two months at 15:00 UK Time on the second Monday of odd numbered months.  On other even numbered months projects submit reports.

| Date        | Activity                              |
| :---------- | :------------------------------------ |
| 11 Mar 2024 | Meeting and report                    |
|  8 Apr 2024 | Report only                           |
| 13 May 2024 | Meeting and report                    |
| 10 Jun 2024 | Report only                           |
|  8 Jul 2024 | Meeting and report                    |

## AOB


Paolo Savini, Chair
