# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Agenda

Monday 8 July 2024

- 08:00-09:00 Pacific Time
- 11:00-12:00 East Coast Time
- 15:00-16:00 UTC
- 15:00-16:00 UK Time
- 16:00-17:00 Central European Time
- 23:00-00:00 Beijing Time

## Location

Zoom meeting.

- [us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761?pwd=M2kwRzNCUG82UFlJT0NMbnJPSXBCZz09](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761?pwd=M2kwRzNCUG82UFlJT0NMbnJPSXBCZz09)
- Meeting ID: 851 9441 6761
- Find your local number: [us02web.zoom.us/u/kuUW3yscL](https://us02web.zoom.us/u/kuUW3yscL)

# Agenda topics

## Register of attendance, introductions and apologies

We are recording attendance at meetings, so OpenHW Group can track membership in accordance with article 4 of the membership agreement. This matters particularly when email ballots are held, to ensure the voters represent member organizations who are active on the group. The attendance records can be seen in the [program](https://github.com/openhwgroup/programs) directory.

## Succession planning (5 minutes allocated)

We are still missing a vice-chair. If you might be interested in taking this role, please speak to me or Duncan Bees.

## Review of actions (5 minutes allocated)

- **Paolo Savini** and **Chunyu Liao** to use upstream QEMU for CORE-V to test respectively the GNU and LLVM tool chains.
  - IN PROGRESS, with assistance on the GNU side from **Mary Bennett** and  **Pietra Ferreira**.

- **Promod Kumar** latest updates on the integration of the QEMU project in the SDK QEMU support.

## Reports from current projects (10 minutes allocated)

Active projects under the Software Task Group will have provided a written report in advance (see the [project specific directories](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects) of the [core-v-sw](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw) repository. We also have one project under the Hardware Task Group which also reports into us.

Each project leader is asked to present any key issues for which community input from the meeting is required.  Project leaders will also take any questions.

- CORE-V GNU Tools for CV32E40PV2 - Nandni Jamnadas/Mary Bennett
- CORE-V FreeRTOS - Joe Julicher
- CORE-V Clang/LLVM for CV32E40PV2 - Paolo Savini and Chunyu Liao
- CORE-V SDK/IDE - Hugh O'Keefe and Promod Kumar
- CORE-V CV32E40PV2 Verilator modeling for software - Jeremy Bennett

## Report back from TWG (5 minutes allocated)

Report of key issues affecting the Software TG from the TWG meetings.

Double check that the details are up to date:
- [Project dashboard](https://github.com/openhwgroup/programs/blob/master/dashboard/Dashboard_SpreadSheetFriendly.md) has been updated:
  - **Action:** All please check all project dashboard data for software task-groups.

## Review of previous topics (15 minutes allocated)

- CVE20:
  - CVE20 still misses a SW platform.
  - X-heep interface might not be compatible with CVE20 yet.
  - We might need a new project to for the CVE20 model.

- CVA6-Platform for SW development and regression - **Duncan Bees**, **Jonathan Balkind**, **Moiz Hussain**, **Redbeard**.
  - slides sent to the RISE distro TG list.

- RTL freeze checklist

## Eclipse Theia and CDT Cloud for OpenHW Tools (25 minutes allocated) - **Philip Langer**

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets every two months at 15:00 UK Time on the second Monday of odd numbered months.  On other even numbered months projects submit reports.

| Date        | Activity                              |
| :---------- | :------------------------------------ |
|  8 Jul 2024 | Meeting and report                    |
| 12 Aug 2024 | Report only                           |
|  9 Sep 2024 | Meeting and report                    |
| 14 Oct 2024 | Report only                           |
| 11 Nov 2024 | Meeting and report                    |
|  9 Dec 2024 | Report only                           |


## AOB


Paolo Savini, Chair
