# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Agenda

Monday 8 Jan 2024

- 07:00-08:00 Pacific Time
- 10:00-11:00 East Coast Time
- 15:00-16:00 UTC
- 15:00-16:00 UK Time
- 16:00-17:00 Central European Time
- 23:00-00:00 Beijing Time

## Location

Zoom meeting.

- [us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761?pwd=M2kwRzNCUG82UFlJT0NMbnJPSXBCZz09](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761?pwd=M2kwRzNCUG82UFlJT0NMbnJPSXBCZz09)
- Meeting ID: 851 9441 6761
- Find your local number: [us02web.zoom.us/u/kuUW3yscL](https://us02web.zoom.us/u/kuUW3yscL)

# Agenda topics

## Register of attendance, introductions and apologies

We are recording attendance at meetings, so OpenHW Group can track membership in accordance with article 4 of the membership agreement. This matters particularly when email ballots are held, to ensure the voters represent member organizations who are active on the group. The attendance records can be seen in the [program](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/tree/master/program) directory of the [core-v-docs repository](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs).

## Succession planning (5 minutes allocated)

We are still missing a vice-chair. If you might be interested in taking this role, please speak to me or Duncan Bees.

## Review of actions (10 minutes allocated)

- **Nandni Jamnadas** and **Chunyu Liao** to use upstream QEMU for CORE-V to test respectively the GNU and LLVM tool chains.
  - IN PROGRESS, with assistance on the GNU side from **Mary Bennett** and  **Pietra Ferreira**.

- **Duncan Bees** and **Rameez Syed** to set up a meeting to start working on a project proposal for the SystemC/TML 2.0 modeling of the CORE-V MCU.

- **Paolo Savini** to confirm the status of the QEMU project with the PLCT team.
  - The SDK team took care of reviewing the work to see how to integrate it in their own QEMU support. Any updates on this?

## Report back from TWG (27th November) (5 minutes allocated)

Duncan Bees to report on key issues affecting the Software TG from the meeting of 27 November 2023.

Double check reminder:
- [Project dashboard](https://github.com/openhwgroup/programs/blob/master/dashboard/Dashboard_SpreadSheetFriendly.md) has been updated:
  - **Action:** All please check all project dashboard data for software task-groups.

## Reports from current projects (10 minutes allocated)

Active projects under the Software Task Group will have provided a written report in advance (see the [project specific directories](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects) of the [core-v-sw](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw) repository. We also have one project under the Hardware Task Group which also reports into us.

Each project leader is asked to present any key issues for which community input from the meeting is required.  Project leaders will also take any questions.

- CORE-V GNU Tools for CV32E40PV2 - Nandni Jamnadas/Mary Bennett
- CORE-V FreeRTOS - Joe Julicher
- CORE-V Clang/LLVM for CV32E40PV2 - Paolo Savini and Chunyu Liao
- CORE-V SDK/IDE - Hugh O'Keefe
- CORE-V CV32E40PV2 Verilator modeling for software - Jeremy Bennett
- QEMU for CORE-V - TBD

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets every two months at 15:00 UK Time on the second Monday of odd numbered months.  On other even numbered months projects submit reports.

| Date        | Activity                              |
| :---------- | :------------------------------------ |
|  8 Jan 2024 | Meeting and report                    |
| 12 Feb 2024 | Report only                           |
| 11 Mar 2024 | Meeting and report                    |
|  8 Apr 2024 | Report only                           |
| 13 May 2024 | Meeting and report                    |

## AOB


Paolo Savini, Chair
