# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Minutes

Monday 8 July 2024, 15:00 UTC

## Attendees and welcome new members

See the separate [attendance register](https://github.com/openhwgroup/programs/blob/master/TWG-and-TG-Attendance-Tracking/TGSoftware_Attendance_2024.md)

# Meeting topics

## Review of actions

- **Paolo Savini** and **Chunyu Liao** to use upstream QEMU for CORE-V to test respectively the GNU and LLVM tool chains.
  - IN PROGRESS, **Paolo Savini** to review a Weiwei's work and update QEMU.

## Report back from TWG (5 minutes allocated)

Report of key issues affecting the Software TG from the TWG meetings.

Double check that the details are up to date:
- [Project dashboard](https://github.com/openhwgroup/programs/blob/master/dashboard/Dashboard_SpreadSheetFriendly.md) has been updated:
  - **Action:** All please check all project dashboard data for software task-groups.

## Review of previous topics (15 minutes allocated)

- CVE20: No updated.
  - CVE20 still misses a SW platform.
  - X-heep interface might not be compatible with CVE20 yet.
  - We might need a new project to for the CVE20 model.

- CVA6-Platform for SW development and regression - **Duncan Bees**, **Jonathan Balkind**, **Moiz Hussain**, **Redbeard**.
  - slides sent to the RISE distro TG list.

- RTL freeze checklist
  - COMPLETE.

## Reports from current projects

Active projects under the Software Task Group will have provided a written report in advance (see the [project specific directories](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects) of the [core-v-sw](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw) repository. We also have one project under the Hardware Task Group which also reports into us.

Each project leader is asked to present any key issues for which community input from the meeting is required.  Project leaders will also take any questions.

- CORE-V GNU Tools for CV32E40PV2 - Nandni Jamnadas/Mary Bennett
  - GCC 14.1 released. Substantial support of the CV extensions.
- CORE-V FreeRTOS - Joe Julicher
  - COMPLETE. The IDE project is using the latest kernel version. No further updates expected in the near future.
- CORE-V Clang/LLVM for CV32E40PV2 - Paolo Savini and Chunyu Liao
  - The review work is in progress with the ALU intrinsics patch landing since last meeting.
  - CodeGen patches for the bitmanip and SIMD extensions are being prepared for upstream.
  - We're working on getting the compiler to generate hw loops safely by
    imposing the necessary limitations to avoid breaking the compilation.
  - The focus now is to get the rest of the patches approved upstream.
- CORE-V SDK/IDE - Hugh O'Keefe
  - Waiting on the Amazon team to become available to implement the FreeRTOS
    project integration into the IDE.
- CORE-V CV32E40PV2 Verilator modeling for software - Jeremy Bennett
  - Ideally the IDE will have a verilator model per chip: need a dedicated project for this.

## Eclipse Theia and CDT Cloud for OpenHW Tools (25 minutes allocated) - **Philip Langer**

Philip Langer gave a presentation of Eclipse Theia and CDT Cloud and then discussed possibility for cooperation between the OpenHW tools and Eclipse Theia developers world.
Further calls and conversation will follow to see how to cooperate: the aim will be to develop mainly Eclipse Theia tools that integrate the existing OpenHW IDE.

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets every two months at 15:00 UK Time on the second Monday of odd numbered months.  On other even numbered months projects submit reports.

| Date        | Activity                              |
| :---------- | :------------------------------------ |
|  8 Jul 2024 | Meeting and report                    |
| 12 Aug 2024 | Report only                           |
|  9 Sep 2024 | Meeting and report                    |
| 14 Oct 2024 | Report only                           |
| 11 Nov 2024 | Meeting and report                    |
|  9 Dec 2024 | Report only                           |

## AOB


Paolo Savini, Chair
