# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Minutes

Monday 8 Jan 2024, 15:00 UTC

## Attendees and welcome new members

See the separate [attendance register](https://github.com/openhwgroup/programs/blob/master/TWG-and-TG-Attendance-Tracking/TGSoftware_Attendance_2023.md)

# Meeting topics

## Review of actions

- **Nandni Jamnadas** and **Chunyu Liao** to use upstream QEMU for CORE-V to test respectively the GNU and LLVM tool chains.
  - IN PROGRESS, with assistance on the GNU side from **Mary Bennett** and  **Pietra Ferreira**.
  - No updates.

- **Duncan Bees** and **Rameez Syed** to set up a meeting to start working on a project proposal for the SystemC/TML 2.0 modeling of the CORE-V MCU.
  - They concluded that there won't be a SystemC project for the CORE-V MCU. STOPPED.

- **Paolo Savini** to confirm the status of the QEMU project with the PLCT team.
  - **Promod** and the SDK team will take care of the next steps to integrate Weiwei's work in their own QEMU.

## Report back from TWG (27th November) (5 minutes allocated)

Duncan Bees to report on key issues affecting the Software TG from the meeting of 27 November 2023.

- Three PC gates were proposed.
- The Polara Devkit project passed.
- Waiting from CEA to update the project concept for the CV32E40PX.
- The UVM project will be withrawn.

Double check reminder:
- [Project dashboard](https://github.com/openhwgroup/programs/blob/master/dashboard/Dashboard_SpreadSheetFriendly.md) has been updated:
  - **Action:** All please check all project dashboard data for software task-groups.

Reminder:
- [Project dashboard](https://github.com/openhwgroup/programs/blob/master/dashboard/Dashboard_SpreadSheetFriendly.md) has been updated:
  - **Action:** All please check all project dashboard data for software task-groups.

## Reports from current projects

Active projects under the Software Task Group will have provided a written report in advance (see the [project specific directories](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects) of the [core-v-sw](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw) repository. We also have one project under the Hardware Task Group which also reports into us.

Each project leader is asked to present any key issues for which community input from the meeting is required.  Project leaders will also take any questions.

- CORE-V GNU Tools for CV32E40PV2 - Nandni Jamnadas/Mary Bennett
  - ALU, mac and elw patches are upstream.
  - Branch immediate, bitmanip are almost ready for upstream.
  - Memory ops and SIMD need more work.
  - Everything submitted for GCC 14.
  - The patch for hw loops has been submitted.
- CORE-V FreeRTOS - Joe Julicher
  - Waiting for monthly report.
- CORE-V Clang/LLVM for CV32E40PV2 - Paolo Savini and Chunyu Liao
  - Almost all the patches have been implemented in the CORE-V Clang/LLVM, most asm/disas patches have landed upstream.
  - The focus now is to get the rest of the patches approved upstream and C API headers agreed upon and ready for upstream.
- CORE-V SDK/IDE - Hugh O'Keefe
  - Started new FreeRTOS project template.
  - Need more information from the FreeRTOS team.
- CORE-V CV32E40PV2 Verilator modeling for software - Jeremy Bennett
  - Stalled: issue with the debug unit of X-HEEP.
  - They are currently validating on the FPGA with a bitstream.
  - They need a CV32E40PV2 SoC with debug unit.
- QEMU for CORE-V - WeiWei Li
  - Promod Kumar will evaluate the next steps to integrate Weiwei's work.

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets every two months at 15:00 UK Time on the second Monday of odd numbered months.  On other even numbered months projects submit reports.

| Date        | Activity                              |
| :---------- | :------------------------------------ |
|  8 Jan 2024 | Meeting and report                    |
| 12 Feb 2024 | Report only                           |
| 11 Mar 2024 | Meeting and report                    |
|  8 Apr 2024 | Report only                           |
| 13 May 2024 | Meeting and report                    |

## AOB


Paolo Savini, Chair
