# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Minutes

Monday 11 Mar 2024, 15:00 UTC

## Attendees and welcome new members

See the separate [attendance register](https://github.com/openhwgroup/programs/blob/master/TWG-and-TG-Attendance-Tracking/TGSoftware_Attendance_2024.md)

# Meeting topics

## Review of actions

- **Nandni Jamnadas** and **Chunyu Liao** to use upstream QEMU for CORE-V to test respectively the GNU and LLVM tool chains.
  - IN PROGRESS, with assistance on the GNU side from **Mary Bennett** and  **Pietra Ferreira**.
  - No updates.

- **Promod Kumar** latest updates on the integration of the QEMU project in the SDK QEMU support.
  - No updates.

## Report back from TWG (5 minutes allocated)

Duncan Bees to report on key issues affecting the Software TG from the meeting of 27 November 2023.

- The draft specification CV-X-IF-v1.0.0-rc.1 is available for review.
- CVA6 Plan Approved and CV-TCC Project Launch both deferred for upcoming TWG
- Presentation of Safety Island Soc and key components.
- CVA6-Platform for SW development and regression.

Reminder:
- [Project dashboard](https://github.com/openhwgroup/programs/blob/master/dashboard/Dashboard_SpreadSheetFriendly.md) has been updated:
  - **Action:** All please check all project dashboard data for software task-groups.

## Reports from current projects

Active projects under the Software Task Group will have provided a written report in advance (see the [project specific directories](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects) of the [core-v-sw](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw) repository. We also have one project under the Hardware Task Group which also reports into us.

Each project leader is asked to present any key issues for which community input from the meeting is required.  Project leaders will also take any questions.

- CORE-V GNU Tools for CV32E40PV2 - Nandni Jamnadas/Mary Bennett
  - Waiting for monthly report.
- CORE-V FreeRTOS - Joe Julicher
  - Waiting for monthly report.
- CORE-V Clang/LLVM for CV32E40PV2 - Paolo Savini and Chunyu Liao
  - All the patches have been implemented in the CORE-V Clang/LLVM, all asm/disas patches have landed upstream. apart from hw loops.
  - The C API headers are agreed upon by LLVM, Gnu and SDK groups and ready to be sent upstream.
  - The focus now is to get the rest of the patches approved upstream.
- CORE-V SDK/IDE - Hugh O'Keefe
  - Waiting for monthly report.
- CORE-V CV32E40PV2 Verilator modeling for software - Jeremy Bennett
  - started last week to use the MCU: we were able to generate the platform.
  - help needed with loading and running a test/benchmark.

## RISE proposal for RISC-V SW Platform (15 minutes allocated + 5 minutes Q&A)

The discussion focused on how to present the proposal to RISE.
On the whole the proposal needs to make the presentation of the technical details shorter.
It was suggested to put a particular emphasis on the fact that we are providing a vendor neutral platform.

## RTL freeze checklist (10 minutes allocated + 5 minutes Q&A) - **Pascal Gouedo**, **Mike Thompson**

The presentation focused on explaining the reasoning behind the layout and contents of the checklist.
The discussion focused on several aspects of the checklist, from the readability of its design to some of the contents.

It was suggested not to call it a RTL freeze any more (it worked for CV232E40P V1) but to describe it as a checklist for the TRL5 release of the project (it applies better to CV232E40P V2).

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets every two months at 15:00 UK Time on the second Monday of odd numbered months.  On other even numbered months projects submit reports.

| Date        | Activity                              |
| :---------- | :------------------------------------ |
| 11 Mar 2024 | Meeting and report                    |
|  8 Apr 2024 | Report only                           |
| 13 May 2024 | Meeting and report                    |
| 10 Jun 2024 | Report only                           |
|  8 Jul 2024 | Meeting and report                    |

## AOB


Paolo Savini, Chair
