# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Minutes

Monday 13 May 2024, 15:00 UTC

## Attendees and welcome new members

See the separate [attendance register](https://github.com/openhwgroup/programs/blob/master/TWG-and-TG-Attendance-Tracking/TGSoftware_Attendance_2024.md)

# Meeting topics

## Review of actions

- **Paolo Savini** and **Chunyu Liao** to use upstream QEMU for CORE-V to test respectively the GNU and LLVM tool chains.
  - IN PROGRESS, **Paolo Savini** to review a Weiwei's work and update QEMU.

- **Promod Kumar** latest updates on the integration of the QEMU project in the SDK QEMU support.
  - No updates.

## Report back from TWG (5 minutes allocated)

Duncan Bees to report on key issues affecting the Software TG from the meeting of 27 November 2023.

- CVE20:
  - CVE20 still misses a SW platform.
  - Is X-heep interface might not be compatible with CVE20 yet.
  - We might need a new project to for the CVE20 model.
- CVA6-Platform for SW development and regression:
  - slides sent to the RISE distro TG list.

Reminder:
- [Project dashboard](https://github.com/openhwgroup/programs/blob/master/dashboard/Dashboard_SpreadSheetFriendly.md) has been updated:
  - **Action:** All please check all project dashboard data for software task-groups.

## Reports from current projects

Active projects under the Software Task Group will have provided a written report in advance (see the [project specific directories](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects) of the [core-v-sw](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw) repository. We also have one project under the Hardware Task Group which also reports into us.

Each project leader is asked to present any key issues for which community input from the meeting is required.  Project leaders will also take any questions.

- CORE-V GNU Tools for CV32E40PV2 - Nandni Jamnadas/Mary Bennett
  - GCC 14.1 released. Substantial support of the CV extensions.
- CORE-V FreeRTOS - Joe Julicher
  - Waiting for monthly report.
- CORE-V Clang/LLVM for CV32E40PV2 - Paolo Savini and Chunyu Liao
  - The review work is in progress with almost all the Codegen/intrinsics
    patches upstream and three of these already landed.
  - LLVM 18.1 was released in January with the full asm/disas support of the
    cv32e40p v.2 extensions (excluding hw loops).
  - We're working on getting the compiler to generate hw loops safely by
    imposing the necessary limitations to avoid breaking the compilation.
  - The focus now is to get the rest of the patches approved upstream.
- CORE-V SDK/IDE - Hugh O'Keefe
  - Waiting on the Amazon team to become available to implement the FreeRTOS
    project integration into the IDE.
- CORE-V CV32E40PV2 Verilator modeling for software - Jeremy Bennett
  - started last week to use the MCU: we were able to generate the platform.
  - help needed with loading and running a test/benchmark.

## Other items

### Question about the tool chain used in the CV32E40S project - **Mike Thompson**

- Need an older version of the tool chain for cv32e40s processor.
  - It should be available precompiled on the Embecosm website.

### RTL freeze checklist - **Pascal Gouedo**, **Mike Thompson**

- Need to get the teams to fill in their RTL freeze checklists.

### RISE proposal for RISC-V SW Platform - **Duncan Bees**, **Jonathan Balkind**, **Moiz Hussain**, **Redbeard**. 

- Need regular reports from Redbeard (Brian Harrington). Need to hear how he needs to move forward and what kind of work is needed. It would be good to have a spot in the meeting for update. Also Moiz Hussain.

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets every two months at 15:00 UK Time on the second Monday of odd numbered months.  On other even numbered months projects submit reports.

| Date        | Activity                              |
| :---------- | :------------------------------------ |
| 13 May 2024 | Meeting and report                    |
| 10 Jun 2024 | Report only                           |
|  8 Jul 2024 | Meeting and report                    |
| 12 Aug 2024 | Report only                           |
|  9 Sep 2024 | Meeting and report                    |
| 14 Oct 2024 | Report only                           |

## AOB


Paolo Savini, Chair
