# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Agenda

Monday 8 May 2023

- 07:00-08:00 Pacific Time
- 10:00-11:00 East Coast Time
- 14:00-15:00 UTC
- 15:00-16:00 UK Time
- 16:00-17:00 Central European Time
- 22:00-23:00 Beijing Time

Since both the Chair and Vice-Chair are unavailable, the meeting will be chaired by the lead of the CORE-V GNU Tools Group, Nandni Jamnadas.

## Location

Zoom meeting.

- [us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761?pwd=M2kwRzNCUG82UFlJT0NMbnJPSXBCZz09](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761?pwd=M2kwRzNCUG82UFlJT0NMbnJPSXBCZz09)
- Meeting ID: 851 9441 6761
- Find your local number: [us02web.zoom.us/u/kuUW3yscL](https://us02web.zoom.us/u/kuUW3yscL)

# Agenda topics

## Register of attendance, introductions and apologies

We are recording attendance at meetings, so OpenHW Group can track membership in accordance with article 4 of the membership agreement. This matters particularly when email ballots are held, to ensure the voters represent member organizations who are active on the group. The attendance records are can be seen in the [program](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/tree/master/program) directory of the [core-v-docs repository](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs).

## Review of actions (5 minutes allocated)

- **Jeremy Bennett** to take CORE-V Verilator Modeling project through Project Launch gate.
  - OPEN: Planned for July face-to-face meeting.

- **Yunhai Shang** and **Duncan Bees** to update CORE-V HAL plans to align with the RISC-V International strategy.

- **Olive Zhao** to set up a meeting with Vincent Chu, Duncan Bees, Promodlumar CM and Joe Julicher to discuss current status of OpenHW HAL project.

- **Cathy Lee** and **Wang Shun** to submit Project Concept proposal for RT-Thread to become an OpenHW Group software project.

- **Kevin Eyssartier** to give technical talk on Yocto at next Software TG  meeting on 8 May 2023.
  - **Note.** Scheduled below.

- **Duncan Bees** to work with **Jerome Qeuvremont** and **Kevin Eyssartier** to move the Yocto repository to the OpenHW organization on GitHub.

## People (5 minutes allocated)

After nearly 3 years as Vice-Chair of this group, Yunhai Shang of Alibaba T-Head has indicated he would like to stand down. We would like to thank Yunhai for his service and wish him well for his future endeavors.

Duncan Bees will advise on the process for identifying a new Vice-Chair.

## Report back from TWG (5 minutes allocated)

Duncan Bees to report on key issues affecting the Software TG from the meetings of 27 March and 24 April 2023.

## Reports from current projects (10 minutes allocated)

Active projects under the Software Task Group will have provided a written report in advance (seet the [project specific directories](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects) of the [core-v-sw](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw) repository. We also have one project under the Hardware Task Group which also reports into us.

Each project leader is asked to present any key issues for which community input from the meeting is required.  Project leaders will also take any questions.

- CORE-V GNU Tools - Nandni Jamnadas
- CORE-V FreeRTOS - Joe Julicher
- CORE-V Clang/LLVM - Charlie Keaney and Chunyu Liao
- Hardware Abstraction Layer - Yunhai Shang
  - note Olive Zhao has advised she will no longer be able to work on this project.
- CORE-V SDK/IDE - Hugh O'Keefe
- CORE-V Verilator modeling (HW TG project) - Jeremy Bennett
- QEMU for Core-V - WeiWei Li

## Yocto for CVA6 (15 minutes allocated)

Kevin Eyssartier will give a technical presentation on Yocto for CVA6, following on from the overview last month by Jerome Quevremont.  This is a candidate OpenHW Group software project.

## Plans for in-person meeting at the RISC-V Eurosummit (15 minutes allocated)

This will be treated as a regular SW TG meeting, so we will have reports from each project.  In addition, we should aim to review overdue gate proposals. At present we have the following in preparation

- Verilator software model: Compiled PL/PA gates

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets every two months at 15:00 UK Time on the second Monday of odd numbered months. We have an additional in-person meeting at RISC-V Eurosummit on the afternoon of 5 June. On other even numbered months projects submit reports.

| Date        | Activity                            |
| :---------- | :---------------------------------- |
|  5 Jun 2023 | Face-to-face meeting                |
| 10 Jul 2023 | Meeting and report                  |
| 14 Aug 2023 | Report only                         |
| 11 Sep 2023 | Meeting and report                  |
| 9 Oct 2023  | Report only                         |
| 13 Nov 2023 | Meeting and report                  |
| 14 Dec 2023 | Face-to-face meeting TBC (Thursday) |

The December meeting depends on the face-to-face meeting taking place next year, and if so its date.

## AOB



Jeremy Bennett, Chair\
Yunhai Shang, Vice-Chair
