# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Minutes

Monday 10 Jul 2023, 14:00 UTC

## Attendees and welcome new members

Welcome Paolo Savini of Embecosm and Holger Blasum, SYSGO GmbH

See separate [attendance register](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/blob/master/program/TWG-and-TG-Attendance-Tracking/TGSoftware_Attendance_2022.md)

## Summary of actions

- **Nandni Jamnadas** and **Chunyu Liao** to use upstream QEMU for CORE-V to test respectively the GNU and LLVM tool chains.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to propose HAL project closure at next TWG (24 July)

- **Duncan Bees** to follow up with **Rick O'Connor** on whether the use of MIT license is appropriate for the OpenHW Yocto layer.

- **Anjali Gedam** to submit the PA proposal for FreeRTOS for CVA6 as pull-request, and post the link to the Software TG channel on MM for any further review comments before it goes to TWG ballot.

# Meeting topics

## Review of actions

- **Jeremy Bennett** to take CORE-V Verilator Modeling project through Project Launch gate at the June face-to-face meeting.

  - COMPLETE. Due to be presented to TWG in July 2023.

- **Yunhai Shang** and **Duncan Bees** to update CORE-V HAL plans to align with the RISC-V International strategy.

  - CLOSED. Absent any HAL leadership, there is nothing to be progressed. **Action:** Jeremy Bennett to propose HAL project closure at next TWG (24 July).

- **Joe Julicher** to - **Cathy Lee** and **Wang Shun** to submit Project Concept proposal for RT-Thread to become an OpenHW Group software project

  - CLOSED pending RT-Thread joining OpenHW Group.

- **Kevin Eyssartier** to give technical talk on Yocto at next Software TG  meeting on 10 July 2023.

  - CLOSED. See below.

- **Duncan Bees** to convene a meeting to decide the future of the HAL project.

  - CLOSED as irrelevant (see action above).

- **Nandni Jamnadas** and **Chunyu Liao** to use upstream QEMU for CORE-V to test respectively the GNU and LLVM tool chains.

  - IN PROGRESS.

## Report back from TWG

Duncan Bees summarized actions that related to the Software TG.
- FreeRTOS PA approval presented (see below)
- Presentation of CODAL (HW specifcation language) from Codasip

## Reports from current projects

Active projects under the Software Task Group have provided a written report in advance (seet the [project specific directories](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects) of the [core-v-sw](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw) repository. We also have one project under the Hardware Task Group which also reports into us.

At the meeting project leaders have the opportunity to highlight any particular issues for discussion.

- CORE-V GNU Tools - Nandni Jamnadas
  - auto-generation of most extensions now working in GCC

- CORE-V FreeRTOS - Joe Julicher
  - not much change this month
  - next step is to review and merge existing repo into upstream

- CORE-V Clang/LLVM - Jeremy Bennett (acting) & Chunyu Liao
  - The process of upstreaming all extensions apart from Hardware Loop is in progress, with several extensions now approved for merge.

- Hardware Abstraction Layer - project in abeyance

- CORE-V SDK/IDE - Promodkumar CM
  - Planning to release version 5 shortly, which will include many new features, including flash programming (documented in Quick Start Guide).

- CORE-V Verilator modeling (HW TG project) - Jeremy Bennett
  - GDB integrated with the Verilator model for CV32E40Pv1 (CORE-V MCU) has been completed and been used for GCC regression testing
  - GDB integrated with the Verilator model for CV32E40Pv2 (X-Heep) is complete apart from resolving an issue with linking the Verilator trace library.

- QEMU for Core-V - WeiWei Li
  - no new update at this time.

## Yocto for CVA6

Kevin Essartier presented Linux Yocto for CVA6.

- **Question:** Will it run on boards other than Genesis 2.
  - **Answer:** Different hardware would likely need a different device tree.

- **Question:** Why does the OpenHW Yocto layer use MIT license
  - **Answer:** This is what is used for reference layers

**Action:** Duncan Bees to follow up with Rick O'Connor on whether the use of MIT license is appropriate for the OpenHW Yocto layer.

OpenHW Group will need to publish their own Yocto layer?

## FreeRTOS for CVA6

Anjali Gedam presented the PA proposal for FreeRTOS on CVA6.

- **Question:** What license should be used for upstreaming
  - **Answer:** MIT license is the appropriate license.

Those present approved the proposal nem. con.

**Action:** Anjali Gedam to submit the PA proposal for FreeRTOS for CVA6 as pull-request, and post the link to the Software TG channel on MM for any further review comments before it goes to TWG ballot.

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets every two months at 15:00 UK Time on the second Monday of odd numbered months. We have an additional in-person meeting at RISC-V Eurosummit on the afternoon of 5 June at 16:15 local time. On other even numbered months projects submit reports.

| Date        | Activity                            |
| :---------- | :---------------------------------- |
| 14 Aug 2023 | Report only                         |
| 11 Sep 2023 | Meeting and report                  |
|  9 Oct 2023 | Report only                         |
|  6 Nov 2023 | Meeting and report (face-to-face)   |

The face-to-face meeting in November will be at the RISC-V Summit and is subject to approval.

## AOB

There was no further business.


Jeremy Bennett, Chair
