# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Minutes

Monday 13 March 2023, 15:00 UTC

## Attendees and welcome new members

Welcome: Mingjie (PLCT), Cathy Lee (RT-Thread), Wang Shun (RT-Thread), Henson (RT-Thread).

See separate [attendance register](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/blob/master/program/TWG-and-TG-Attendance-Tracking/TGSoftware_Attendance_2022.md)

## Summary of actions

- **Jeremy Bennett** to take CORE-V Verilator Modeling project through Project Launch gate.
- **Yunhai Shang** and **Duncan Bees** to update CORE-V HAL plans to align with the RISC-V International strategy.
- **Olive Zhao** to set up a meeting with Vincent Chu, Duncan Bees, Promodlumar CM and Joe Julicher to discuss current status of OpenHW HAL project.
- **Cathy Lee** and **Wang Shun** to submit Project Concept proposal for RT-Thread to become an OpenHW Group software project.
- **Kevin Eyssartier** to give technical talk on Yocto at next Software TG  meeting on 8 May 2023.
- **Duncan Bees** to work with **Jerome Qeuvremont** and **Kevin Eyssartier** to move the Yocto repository to the OpenHW organization on GitHub.

# Meeting topics

## Review of actions

- **Mike Thompson** to encourage the CVA6 project to engage with the Software Task Group.

  - Complete

- **Joe Julicher** of action to take ownership of the FreeRTOS project and work with **Duncan Bees** to submit PL and PA proposals via TWG.

  - Complete.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to take CORE-V Verilator Modeling project through Project Launch gate.

  - Sheduled for this month.

- **Yunhai Shang** and **Duncan Bees** to update CORE-V HAL plans to align with the RISC-V International strategy.

  - Open.

- **Florian Zaruba** to create core-v-qemu mirror.

  - Complete.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to update the draft builtin proposal in the light of the discussion at this meeting.

  - Complete.

- **Duncan Bees** to add discussion of builtin naming to the next TWG agenda.

  - Complete.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to consult on whether the assembler instruction names are correct.

  - Complete.

- **Olive Zhao** to set up a meeting with Vincent Chu, Duncan Bees, Promodlumar CM and Joe Julicher to discuss current status of OpenHW HAL project.

  - Open.

## Report back from TWG

Jeremy Bennett summarized actions that related to the Software TG.

- CORE-V builtin specification broadly accepted and sent for voting approval.  Vote on hold pending some small changes found to be needed.
- CORE-V instruction naming.  Key aspect of this is changing those instruction which are mixed case to all lower case versions.

## Reports from current projects

Active projects under the Software Task Group have provided a written report in advance (seet the [project specific directories](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects) of the [core-v-sw](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw) repository. We also have one project under the Hardware Task Group which also reports into us.

At the meeting project leaders have the opportunity to highlight any particular issues for discussion.

- CORE-V GNU Tools - Nandni Jamnadas
  - nothing to add to written report

- CORE-V FreeRTOS - Joe Julicher
  - no report

- CORE-V Clang/LLVM - Charlie Keaney & Chunyu Liao
  - nothing to add to written report

- Hardware Abstraction Layer - Yunhai Shang and Olive Zhao
  - no report

- CORE-V SDK/IDE - Promodkumar CM
  - nothing to add to the written report

- CORE-V Verilator modeling (HW TG project) - Jeremy Bennett
  - verbal report that the Verilator model can now be connected to GDB and run programs under debug
  - next step is to use as target for GCC regression

- QEMU for Core-V - WeiWei Li
  - noting to add to the written report

## Intro to Open Source RT-Thread Operating System and the Porting Work on CORE-V (20 minutes allocated)

Wang Shun & Cathy Lee, from RT-Thread presented their work on the eponymous RTOS.

**Action:** Cathy Lee and Wang Shun to submit Project Concept proposal for RT-Thread to become an OpenHW Group software project.

## Moving Yocto to OpenHW (15 minutes allocated)

Jerome Quevremont presented the work on Yocto for CVA6, which has been done by Kevin Eyssartier.  This work will be presented at the RISC-V European meeting and is proposed to be held under the OpenHW GitHub organization.  Yocto is already is covered by CVA6 PA gate, so we do not need any project management documents.  We just need to move the repoistory from Thales to OpenHW on GitHub.  The software is largely complete, but should report progress as necessary to the Software TG

**Action:** Kevin Eyssartier to give technical talk on Yocto at next Software TG  meeting on 8 May 2023.

**Action:** Duncan Bees to work with Jerome Qeuvremont and Kevin Eyssartier to move the Yocto repository to the OpenHW organization on GitHub.

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets every two months at 15:0A0 UK Time on the second Monday of odd numbered months.  On even numbered months projects submit reports.

| Date        | Activity                            |
| :---------- | :---------------------------------- |
| 10 Apr 2023 | Report only                         |
| 8 May 2023  | Meeting and report                  |
| 12 Jun 2023 | Report only                         |
| 10 Jul 2023 | Meeting and report                  |
| 14 Aug 2023 | Report only                         |
| 11 Sep 2023 | Meeting and report                  |
| 9 Oct 2023  | Report only                         |
| 13 Nov 2023 | Meeting and report                  |
| 14 Dec 2023 | Face-to-face meeting TBC (Thursday) |

The December meeting depends on the face-to-face meeting taking place next year, and if so its date.

## AOB

Jeremy Bennett, Chair\
Yunhai Shang, Vice-Chair
