# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Minutes

Monday 8 March 2023, 14:00 UTC

## Attendees and welcome new members

<!-- Record anyone new, with their company/institution in parentheses-->

See separate [attendance register](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/blob/master/program/TWG-and-TG-Attendance-Tracking/TGSoftware_Attendance_2022.md)

## Summary of actions

<!-- Put the bulleted list of actions here.  This will be any of the reviewed actions that are still open and any new actions from the meeting.  Use the same format at the review of actions -->

- **Jeremy Bennett** to take CORE-V Verilator Modeling project through Project Launch gate at the June face-to-face meeting.

- **Yunhai Shang** and **Duncan Bees** to update CORE-V HAL plans to align
  with the RISC-V International strategy.
  - Held OPEN.

- **Joe Julicher** to - **Cathy Lee** and **Wang Shun** to submit Project Concept proposal for RT-Thread to become an OpenHW Group software project.
  - On HOLD pending RT-Thread joining OpenHW Group.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to ask Ming Xie to facilitate progres on the RT-Thread proposal.

- **Kevin Eyssartier** to give technical talk on Yocto at next Software TG  meeting on 10 July 2023.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to convey to Yunhai Shang the meeting's thanks for his service as Vice-Chair of Group.

- **Duncan Bees** to lead the process to identify candidates to be vice-chair of the Software TG.

- **Duncan Bees** to convene a meeting to decide the future of the HAL project.

- **Nandni Jamnadas** and **Chunyu Liao** to use upstream QEMU for CORE-V to test respectively the GNU and LLVM tool chains

# Meeting topics

## Review of actions

<!-- Update with details for each action. I have done the first one, since we know about that. -->

- **Jeremy Bennett** to take CORE-V Verilator Modeling project through Project Launch gate.
  - OPEN: Planned for June face-to-face meeting.

- **Yunhai Shang** and **Duncan Bees** to update CORE-V HAL plans to align
  with the RISC-V International strategy.
  - Held OPEN.

- **Olive Zhao** to set up a meeting with Vincent Chu, Duncan Bees, Promodlumar CM and Joe Julicher to discuss current status of OpenHW HAL project.
  - Transfered to **Joe Julicher** to ensure all stakeholders have buy in to the current SDK work.

- **Cathy Lee** and **Wang Shun** to submit Project Concept proposal for RT-Thread to become an OpenHW Group software project.
  - On HOLD pending RT-Thread joining OpenHW Group.
  - **Jeremy Bennett** to ask Ming Xie to facilitate progres on the RT-Thread proposal.

- **Kevin Eyssartier** to give technical talk on Yocto at next Software TG  meeting on 8 May 2023.
  - POSTPONED.

- **Duncan Bees** to work with **Jerome Qeuvremont** and **Kevin Eyssartier** to move the Yocto repository to the OpenHW organization on GitHub.
  - COMPLETE. See [meta-cva6-yocto repository](https://github.com/openhwgroup/meta-cva6-yocto).

## People (5 minutes allocated)

After nearly 3 years as Vice-Chair of this group, Yunhai Shang of Alibaba T-Head has indicated he would like to stand down.

**Action** The meeting expressed its appreciation to Yunhai for his service and asked the Chair of Group to convey this to Yunhai. Proposed **Jeremy Bennett**, seconded **Mike Thompson**, passed nem con.

Duncan Bees advised on the process for identifying a new Vice-Chair.  We ask for Platinum or Gold members to self-nominate.

**Action** Duncan Bees to lead the process to identify candidates to be vice-chair of the Software TG

<!-- Add any more detail if needed -->

## Report back from TWG

Duncan Bees summarized actions that related to the Software TG.
- Ballots approved: CVE20 and CORE-V Vision projects.
- Ballots in progress: CORE-V Builtin SPEC, Charter approval for Safety & Security group, Project Concept for CORE-V 180 MCU.

The issue of resource to complete the SDK was raised.

<!-- Add list of key points here -->

## Reports from current projects

Active projects under the Software Task Group have provided a written report in advance (seet the [project specific directories](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects) of the [core-v-sw](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw) repository. We also have one project under the Hardware Task Group which also reports into us.

At the meeting project leaders have the opportunity to highlight any particular issues for discussion.

<!-- Add any details as sub-bullets, I have added mine for the Verilator modeling project.  Many will be "nothing to add to written report".  Some may be "no report" -->

- CORE-V GNU Tools - Nandni Jamnadas
  - Jeremy Bennett gave a verbal report
  - GCC and binutils-gdb repos have been rolled forward to mid-March 2023
    - all Zc* except Zcmt, based on upstream/proposed upstream
	-

- CORE-V FreeRTOS - Joe Julicher
  - Robert Balas repository used for SDK
  - Looks to be almost identical to the official OpenHW repository.
  - Easy to migrate, and we should base on the LTS version of FreeRTOS
  - Need to port Robert's demos to the official repo.
  - SDK is lacking a basic interface to the low level hardware of the chip
    - proposed to use the Amazon Common I/O libraries
	- open source, supported by Amazon, intended for products going to market
	- Ashling think this can be incorporated in the SDK.
  - Demos need a lot of work - volunteers wanted, but needs Common I/O.
  - Discussed on Wednesday CORE-V MCU meeting at 08:00 PT on Wednesdays.

- CORE-V Clang/LLVM - Charlie Keaney & Chunyu Liao
  - nothing to add to report
  - Charlie Keaney & Chunyu Liao are presenting their work at EuroLLVM on Thursday 11 June 2023.

- Hardware Abstraction Layer - Yunhai Shang and Olive Zhao
  - Yunhai and Olive have indicated they wish to stand aside
  - the project needs a new lead or to be wrapper up
  - **Action** Duncan Bees to convene a meeting to decide the future of the HAL project.

- CORE-V SDK/IDE - Promodkumar CM
  - nothing to add to report.

- CORE-V Verilator modeling (HW TG project) - Jeremy Bennett
  - Jeremy Bennett that the model of CORE-V MCU had successfully been used for a complete GCC C regression test run (120,000 tests).  Current work is to create a model for CV32E40Pv2, so that all the extensions can be tested.

- QEMU for Core-V - WeiWei Li
  - no new update at this time
  - now merged to upstream to upstream CORE-V QEMU
  - needs more testing of this upstream work
  - **Action** Nandni Jamnadas and Chunyu Liao to use upstream QEMU for CORE-V to test respectively the GNU and LLVM tool chains.

## Yocto for CVA6

This talks is held over to a future meeting.

<!-- Add a brief summary here -->

## Plans for in-person meeting at the RISC-V Eurosummit

This will be treated as a regular SW TG meeting, with the opportunity to present remotely, so we will have reports from each project.  In addition, we should aim to review overdue gate proposals. At present we have the following in preparation

- Verilator software model: PL/PA gates

<!-- Add any more detail here -->

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets every two months at 15:00 UK Time on the second Monday of odd numbered months. We have an additional in-person meeting at RISC-V Eurosummit on the afternoon of 5 June at 16:15 local time. On other even numbered months projects submit reports.

| Date        | Activity                            |
| :---------- | :---------------------------------- |
|  5 Jun 2023 | Face-to-face meeting                |
| 10 Jul 2023 | Meeting and report                  |
| 14 Aug 2023 | Report only                         |
| 11 Sep 2023 | Meeting and report                  |
| 9 Oct 2023  | Report only                         |
| 13 Nov 2023 | Meeting and report                  |
| 14 Dec 2023 | Face-to-face meeting TBC (Thursday) |

The December meeting depends on the face-to-face meeting taking place next year, and if so its date.

## AOB


Jeremy Bennett, Chair \
Yunhai Shang, Vice-Chair
