# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Minutes

Monday 11 Sep 2023, 14:00 UTC

## Attendees and welcome new members

See the separate [attendance register](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/blob/master/program/TWG-and-TG-Attendance-Tracking/TGSoftware_Attendance_2022.md)

## Summary of actions

- **All** please check all project dashboard data for software task-groups.

- **Duncan Bees** to follow up with **Rick O'Connor** on whether the use of MIT license is appropriate for the OpenHW Yocto layer.
  - ONGOING. **Duncan Bees** to follow-up with **Kevin Essartier** at Thales.

# Meeting topics

## Review of actions

- **Nandni Jamnadas** and **Chunyu Liao** to use upstream QEMU for CORE-V to test respectively the GNU and LLVM tool chains.
  - IN PROGRESS, with assistance on the GNU side from **Mary Bennett** and  **Pietra Ferreira**.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to propose HAL project closure at next TWG (24 July)
  - COMPLETE. Marked as inactive in the central database

- **Duncan Bees** to follow up with **Rick O'Connor** on whether the use of MIT license is appropriate for the OpenHW Yocto layer.
  - ONGOING. **Duncan Bees** to follow-up with **Kevin Essartier** at Thales.

- **Anjali Gedam** to submit the PA proposal for FreeRTOS for CVA6 as pull-request, and post the link to the Software TG channel on MM for any further review comments before it goes to TWG ballot.
  - COMPLETE. Posted on Software TG
  - Congratualations to Anjali for getting this project upstreamed.

## New project lead for overall LLVM project (5 minutes allocated)

**Paolo Savini** was elected _nem. con._ as the new lead for the overall LLVM project.

**Note.** **Chunyu Liao** continues to lead the LLVM for CV32E40Pv2 project.

## New co-project lead for GNU tools project (5 minutes allocated)

**Mary Bennett** was elected _nem. con._ as co-project lead for the GNU tools
project alongside **Nandni Jamnadas**.

## Committer elections

**Paolo Savini** and **Mary Bennett** have been elected as CORE-V committers.

## Report back from TWG

Duncan Bees summarized actions that related to the Software TG.
- [Project dashboard](https://github.com/openhwgroup/programs/blob/master/dashboard/Dashboard_SpreadSheetFriendly.md) has been updated:
  - **Action:** All please check all project dashboard data for software task-groups.
- CVA6 platform being led by Jonathan Balkind.  FPGA based CVA6 cloud platfor form sofware development

## Reports from current projects

Active projects under the Software Task Group have provided a written report in advance (seet the [project specific directories](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects) of the [core-v-sw](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw) repository. We also have one project under the Hardware Task Group which also reports into us.

At the meeting project leaders have the opportunity to highlight any particular issues for discussion.

- CORE-V GNU Tools - Nandni Jamnadas/Mary Bennett
  - upstreaming binutils started (cvmac and cvalu submitted)
  - organizing corresponding GCC patch
  - goal is to be included in GCC 14.1
- CORE-V FreeRTOS - Duncan Bees on behalf of Joe Julicher
  - CVA6 FreeRTOS is now upstream (see actions above)
  - DevKit is near being built, which will include SDK with FreeRTOS
- CORE-V Clang/LLVM - Paolo Savini and Chunyu Liao
  - upstreaming is in active progress, under review, with no major blockers
  - discussion around the C API, which needs documenting
  - discussion about futher builtins which should be generic rather than CORE-V specific
- CORE-V SDK/IDE - Promodkumar
  - next version of SDK due to be released by end of 2023
- CORE-V Verilator modeling for software - Jeremy Bennett
  - nothing to add to the report
- QEMU for Core-V - WeiWei Li
  - no report

## Succession planning (5 minutes allocated)

All members are invited to consider standing for Chair, Vice-Chair or Co-Chair.  Please feel free to talk to **Jeremy Bennett** or **Duncan Bees** if you are interested.

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets every two months at 15:00 UK Time on the second Monday of odd numbered months.  On other even numbered months projects submit reports.  Now that dates of the RISC-V Summit are confirmed, we anticipate that November's meeting will be face-to-face and a week earlier than our regular schedule.

| Date        | Activity                              |
| :---------- | :------------------------------------ |
| 14 Aug 2023 | Report only                           |
| 11 Sep 2023 | Meeting and report                    |
|  9 Oct 2023 | Report only                           |
|  6 Nov 2023 | Face-to-face meeting (TBC) and report |
| 14 Dec 2023 | Report only                           |

The November meeting is scheduled a week early to coincide with the RISC-V Summit, and depends on the face-to-face meeting taking place on that date.

## AOB

- **Question.** Where do you find the templates for project gates.
  - **Answer.** They are in the [programs repository](https://github.com/openhwgroup/programs/tree/master/process).

There was no further business.


Jeremy Bennett, Chair
