# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Agenda

Monday 9 January 2023

- 07:00-08:00 Pacific Time
- 10:00-11:00 East Coast Time
- 15:00-16:00 UTC
- 15:00-16:00 UK Time
- 16:00-17:00 Central European Time
- 23:00-24:00 Beijing Time

## Location

Zoom meeting.

- [us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761?pwd=M2kwRzNCUG82UFlJT0NMbnJPSXBCZz09](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761?pwd=M2kwRzNCUG82UFlJT0NMbnJPSXBCZz09)
- Meeting ID: 851 9441 6761
- Find your local number: [us02web.zoom.us/u/kuUW3yscL](https://us02web.zoom.us/u/kuUW3yscL)

# Agenda topics

## Register of attendance, introductions and apologies

We are recording attendance at meetings, so OpenHW Group can track membership in accordance with article 4 of the membership agreement. This matters particularly when email ballots are held, to ensure the voters represent member organizations who are active on the group. The attendance records are can be seen in the [program](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/tree/master/program) directory of the [core-v-docs repository](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs).

## Proposed CORE-V builtin function names (15 minutes allocated)

As a matter of urgency the GNU and LLVM tool chain teams need agreement on the type and names of builtin (intrinsic) functions for the various CORE-V instruction set extensions.  The draft proposal can be found in the [core-v-sw repository](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/specifications/corev-builtin-spec.md).

This is something that needs agreement from other groups. The agenda item is being taken early for the convenience of participants from other groups.

## Review of actions (15 minutes allocated)

- **Duncan Bees** to bring interested parties together to bring the Linux tool project being developed by Thales into visibility within the Software TG.

  - Mike Thompson and Jean Roch Coulon are planning on-site launch of CVA6 at Thales in early January (in Marseilles). Good opportunity to close this issue.
  - Duncan to brief Thales on all the outstanding CVA6 software activities.

- **Mike Thompson** to complete the quick start guide for FreeRTOS on emulation, Xcelium simulation and Verilator.

  - now available, focusing on Emulation. Not yet updated for Xcelium and Verilator.

- **Duncan Bees** and **Joe Julicher** to have conversation with Hugh O'Keeffe, Robert Balas, Shterana Shopova and Richard Barry about moving CORE-V FreeRTOS project to Project Launch gate.  Meeting scheduled for 14 January at 15:00 UTC.

  - held open to next meeting
  - Joe Julicher to join the action to help Duncan with this.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to take CORE-V Verilator Modeling project through Project Launch gate.

  - carried forward. Anticipate completing this action in October/November time frame.
  - it would be clearer to rename as the GDB interface to Verilator project.

- **Duncan Bees** to give an introduction to Kevin @ Thales to establish status of Clang/LLVM for CVA6.

  - carried forward.

- **Yunhai Shang** and **Duncan Bees** to update CORE-V HAL plans to align with the RISC-V International strategy.

  - open, pending completion of plans later this yet.
  - Richad Barry to contribute to reviewing

- **Florian Zaruba** to create core-v-qemu mirror.

## Report back from face-to-face meeting (5 minutes allocated)

## Reports from current projects (15 minutes allocated)

Active projects under the Software Task Group will have provided a written report in advance (seet the [project specific directories](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects) of the [core-v-sw](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw) repository. We also have one project under the Hardware Task Group which also reports into us.

Each project leader is asked to present any key issues for which community input from the meeting is required.  Project leaders will also take any questions.

- CORE-V GNU Tools - Nandni Jamnadas
- CORE-V FreeRTOS - Robert Balas and Shteryana Shopova
- CORE-V Clang/LLVM - Charlie Keaney and Zbigniew Chamski
- Hardware Abstraction Layer - Yunhain Shang and Olive Zhao
- CORE-V SDK/IDE - Hugh O'Keefe
- CORE-V Verilator modeling (HW TG project) - Jeremy Bennett
- QEMU for Core-V - WeiWei Li

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets every two months at 15:0A0 UK Time on the second Monday of odd numbered months.  On even numbered months projects submit reports.

| Date        | Activity                            |
| :---------- | :---------------------------------- |
| 9 Jan 2023  | Meeting and report                  |
| 13 Feb 2023 | Report only                         |
| 13 Mar 2023 | Meeting and report                  |
| 10 Apr 2023 | Report only                         |
| 8 May 2023  | Meeting and report                  |
| 12 Jun 2023 | Report only                         |
| 10 Jul 2023 | Meeting and report                  |
| 14 Aug 2023 | Report only                         |
| 11 Sep 2023 | Meeting and report                  |
| 9 Oct 2023  | Report only                         |
| 13 Nov 2023 | Meeting and report                  |
| 14 Dec 2023 | Face-to-face meeting TBC (Thursday) |

The December meeting depends on the face-to-face meeting taking place next year, and if so its date.

## AOB



Jeremy Bennett, Chair\
Yunhai Shang, Vice-Chair
