# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Minutes

Monday 9 January 2023, 15:00 UTC

## Attendees and welcome new members

Welcome: Hélène Chelin (Embecosm) and Pascal Gouedo (Dolphin Design).

See separate [attendance register](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/blob/master/program/TWG-and-TG-Attendance-Tracking/TGSoftware_Attendance_2022.md)

## Summary of actions

- **Mike Thompson** to encourage the CVA6 project to engage with the Software Task Group.

- **Joe Julicher** of action to take ownership of the FreeRTOS project and work with **Duncan Bees** to submit PL and PA proposals via TWG.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to take CORE-V Verilator Modeling project through Project Launch gate.

- **Yunhai Shang** and **Duncan Bees** to update CORE-V HAL plans to align with the RISC-V International strategy.

- **Florian Zaruba** to create core-v-qemu mirror.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to update the draft builtin proposal in the light of the discussion at this meeting.

- **Duncan Bees** to add discussion of builtin naming to the next TWG agenda.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to consult on whether the assembler instruction names are correct.

- **Olive Zhao** to set up a meeting with Vincent Chu, Duncan Bees, Promodlumar CM and Joe Julicher to discuss current status of OpenHW HAL project.

# Meeting topics

## Proposed CORE-V builtin function names

As a matter of urgency the GNU and LLVM tool chain teams need agreement on the type and names of builtin (intrinsic) functions for the various CORE-V instruction set extensions.  The draft proposal can be found in the [core-v-sw repository](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/specifications/corev-builtin-spec.md).

The discussion in the Software TG was to inform the wider discussion.  This is something that needs agreement from other groups.  The notes here have been supplmented by information gained after the meeting.

It was noted that the builtins must be consistent across 32-bit (CV32E) and 64-bit (CVA) architectures.  The current document only documents 32-bit version.

- _Post meeting note._ The functions can be overloaded, with the same name being used with 64-bit arguments.  This is not true overloading in the C++ sense, because for any particular compilation run, only one of the versions will exist, depending on whether the compilation target is 32-bit or 64-bit.

The builtin names should include the name of the extension to which they relate.  These will be the individual extension names (simd, bitmanip etc).

- _Post meeting note._ After the meeting, we found that Clang/LLVM upstream already has vendor specific builtin functions.  We had proposed using `__builting_corev_` as the prefix, but instead, we must use `_builtin_riscv_cv_<isaext>_`

**Action.**  Jeremy Bennett to update the draft builtin proposal in the light of the discussion at this meeting.

This needs to be a CORE-V specification, since it is wider than just the Software TG or any individual cores. **Action.** Duncan Bees to add discussion of builtin naming to the next TWG agenda.

The question was raised over whether we have assembler instruction names correct.  Should these also included the name of their extension.  **Action** Jeremy Bennett to consult on whether the assembler instruction names are correct.

## Review of actions

- **Duncan Bees** to bring interested parties together to bring the Linux tool project being developed by Thales into visibility within the Software TG.

  - Thales have indicated they expect to use entirely standard off-the-shelf software throughout.  Action transfered to **Mike Thompson** to encourage the CVA6 project to engage with the Software Task Group.

- **Mike Thompson** to complete the quick start guide for FreeRTOS on emulation, Xcelium simulation and Verilator.

  - now available, focusing on Emulation. Not yet updated for Xcelium and Verilator.
  - now have a quickstart guide.
  - this has been a long running action, and is now closed.

- **Duncan Bees** and **Joe Julicher** to have conversation with Hugh O'Keeffe, Robert Balas, Shterana Shopova and Richard Barry about moving CORE-V FreeRTOS project to Project Launch gate.

  - **Joe Julicher** of action to take ownership of the FreeRTOS project and work with **Duncan Bees** to submit PL and PA proposals via TWG.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to take CORE-V Verilator Modeling project through Project Launch gate.

  - carried forward. Originally aimed at the October/November time frame, now targeting January TWG.
  - it would be clearer to rename as the GDB interface to Verilator project.

- **Duncan Bees** to give an introduction to Kevin @ Thales to establish status of Clang/LLVM for CVA6.

  - Merged into the wider action for CVA6 to engage with the Software TG.

- **Yunhai Shang** and **Duncan Bees** to update CORE-V HAL plans to align with the RISC-V International strategy.

  - open, pending completion of plans later this yet.
  - Richad Barry to contribute to reviewing

- **Florian Zaruba** to create core-v-qemu mirror.

  - **Duncan Bees** to follow-up.

## Report back from face-to-face meeting

Duncan Bees summarized actions that related to the Software TG.

- LLVM PL reviewed, ready for TWG vote
- LLVM PA by Chunyu Liao needs further revision before TWG vote.
- feedback that better understanding of the gate process is needed.
- Joe Julicher to prepare PL/PA documents for FreeRTOS
- need to move SDK to PL/PA gate (Dunca Bees and Promodkumar CM to work on this).

Overall feedback that this was a very useful meeting, and should be repeated.  Intention to hold a European face-to-face in the summer.

## Reports from current projects

Active projects under the Software Task Group have provided a written report in advance (seet the [project specific directories](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects) of the [core-v-sw](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw) repository. We also have one project under the Hardware Task Group which also reports into us.

At the meeting project leaders have the opportunity to highlight any particular issues for discussion.

- CORE-V GNU Tools - Nandni Jamnadas
  - nothing to add to written report

- CORE-V FreeRTOS - Joe Julicher
  - nothing to report

- CORE-V Clang/LLVM - Charlie Keaney
  - since report PR submitted to deal with generation of clipu instruction.

- Hardware Abstraction Layer - Yunhai Shang and Olive Zhao
  - see action above
  - Olive Zhao and Yunhai Shang met in December
  - RISC-V International are selecting two boards for reference implementation
    - we would like one to be CORE-V MCU on Nexys A7
	- this needs a reference bitstream they can use.
	  - should be available on the OpenHW download page
	- User manual is in heavy development
  - **Action.** Olive Zhao to set up a meeting with Vincent Chu, Duncan Bees, Promodlumar CM and Joe Julicher to discuss current status of OpenHW HAL project.

- CORE-V SDK/IDE - Promodkumar CM
  - nothing to add to the written report.

- CORE-V Verilator modeling (HW TG project) - Jeremy Bennett
  - no update to the report at the face-to-face meeting

- QEMU for Core-V - WeiWei Li
  - updating to version 9

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets every two months at 15:0A0 UK Time on the second Monday of odd numbered months.  On even numbered months projects submit reports.

| Date        | Activity                            |
| :---------- | :---------------------------------- |
| 13 Feb 2023 | Report only                         |
| 13 Mar 2023 | Meeting and report                  |
| 10 Apr 2023 | Report only                         |
| 8 May 2023  | Meeting and report                  |
| 12 Jun 2023 | Report only                         |
| 10 Jul 2023 | Meeting and report                  |
| 14 Aug 2023 | Report only                         |
| 11 Sep 2023 | Meeting and report                  |
| 9 Oct 2023  | Report only                         |
| 13 Nov 2023 | Meeting and report                  |
| 14 Dec 2023 | Face-to-face meeting TBC (Thursday) |

The December meeting depends on the face-to-face meeting taking place next year, and if so its date.

## AOB

Jeremy Bennett, Chair\
Yunhai Shang, Vice-Chair
