# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Agenda

Monday 13 March 2023

- 08:00-09:00 Pacific Time
- 11:00-12:00 East Coast Time
- 15:00-16:00 UTC
- 15:00-16:00 UK Time
- 16:00-17:00 Central European Time
- 23:00-24:00 Beijing Time

## Location

Zoom meeting.

- [us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761?pwd=M2kwRzNCUG82UFlJT0NMbnJPSXBCZz09](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761?pwd=M2kwRzNCUG82UFlJT0NMbnJPSXBCZz09)
- Meeting ID: 851 9441 6761
- Find your local number: [us02web.zoom.us/u/kuUW3yscL](https://us02web.zoom.us/u/kuUW3yscL)

# Agenda topics

## Register of attendance, introductions and apologies

We are recording attendance at meetings, so OpenHW Group can track membership in accordance with article 4 of the membership agreement. This matters particularly when email ballots are held, to ensure the voters represent member organizations who are active on the group. The attendance records are can be seen in the [program](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/tree/master/program) directory of the [core-v-docs repository](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs).

## Review of actions (5 minutes allocated)

- **Mike Thompson** to encourage the CVA6 project to engage with the Software Task Group.

- **Joe Julicher** of action to take ownership of the FreeRTOS project and work with **Duncan Bees** to submit PL and PA proposals via TWG.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to take CORE-V Verilator Modeling project through Project Launch gate.

- **Yunhai Shang** and **Duncan Bees** to update CORE-V HAL plans to align with the RISC-V International strategy.

- **Florian Zaruba** to create core-v-qemu mirror.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to update the draft builtin proposal in the light of the discussion at this meeting.

- **Duncan Bees** to add discussion of builtin naming to the next TWG agenda.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to consult on whether the assembler instruction names are correct.

- **Olive Zhao** to set up a meeting with Vincent Chu, Duncan Bees, Promodlumar CM and Joe Julicher to discuss current status of OpenHW HAL project.

## Report back from TWG (5 minutes allocated)

Key SW issues:

- CORE-V builtin specification
- CORE-V instruction naming

## Reports from current projects (10 minutes allocated)

Active projects under the Software Task Group will have provided a written report in advance (seet the [project specific directories](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects) of the [core-v-sw](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw) repository. We also have one project under the Hardware Task Group which also reports into us.

Each project leader is asked to present any key issues for which community input from the meeting is required.  Project leaders will also take any questions.

- CORE-V GNU Tools - Nandni Jamnadas
- CORE-V FreeRTOS - Joe Julicher
- CORE-V Clang/LLVM - Charlie Keaney and Chunyu Liao
- Hardware Abstraction Layer - Yunhain Shang and Olive Zhao
- CORE-V SDK/IDE - Hugh O'Keefe
- CORE-V Verilator modeling (HW TG project) - Jeremy Bennett
- QEMU for Core-V - WeiWei Li

## Intro to Open Source RT-Thread Operating System and the Porting Work on CORE-V (20 minutes allocated)

Wang Shun & Cathy Lee, from RT-Thread will present their work on the eponymous RTOS, which may be a candidate OpenHW Group software project.

## Moving Yocto to OpenHW (15 minutes allocated)

Jerome Quevremont will present the work on Yocto for CVA6, which has been done by Kevin Eyssartier.  This is a candidate OpenHW Group software project.

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets every two months at 15:00 UK Time on the second Monday of odd numbered months.  On even numbered months projects submit reports.

| Date        | Activity                            |
| :---------- | :---------------------------------- |
| 10 Apr 2023 | Report only                         |
| 8 May 2023  | Meeting and report                  |
| 12 Jun 2023 | Report only                         |
| 10 Jul 2023 | Meeting and report                  |
| 14 Aug 2023 | Report only                         |
| 11 Sep 2023 | Meeting and report                  |
| 9 Oct 2023  | Report only                         |
| 13 Nov 2023 | Meeting and report                  |
| 14 Dec 2023 | Face-to-face meeting TBC (Thursday) |

The December meeting depends on the face-to-face meeting taking place next year, and if so its date.

## AOB



Jeremy Bennett, Chair\
Yunhai Shang, Vice-Chair
