# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Agenda

Monday 6 June 2023

- 07:15-07:45 Pacific Time
- 10:15-10:45 East Coast Time
- 14:15-14:45 UTC
- 15:15-15:45 UK Time
- 16:15-16:45 Central European Time
- 22:15-22:45 Beijing Time

## Location

In person meeting at Barceló Sants, Plaça dels Països Catalans, s/n - 08014
Barcelona. Zoom meeting for those joining remotely:

- [us02web.zoom.us/j/81938712442?pwd=VkNxdy9YZUZQa2l0OWhKSnJxRDcrZz09](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/81938712442?pwd=VkNxdy9YZUZQa2l0OWhKSnJxRDcrZz09).
- Meeting ID: 819 3871 2442
- Passcode: 353079
- Find your local number: [us02web.zoom.us/u/kbKcJeaUMA](https://us02web.zoom.us/u/kbKcJeaUMA)

**Note.** This is a change to the usual Zoom link for Software TG meetings.

# Agenda topics

## Register of attendance, introductions and apologies

We are recording attendance at meetings, so OpenHW Group can track membership in accordance with article 4 of the membership agreement. This matters particularly when email ballots are held, to ensure the voters represent member organizations who are active on the group. The attendance records are can be seen in the [program](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/tree/master/program) directory of the [core-v-docs repository](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs).

## Review of actions (5 minutes allocated)

- **Jeremy Bennett** to take CORE-V Verilator Modeling project through Project Launch gate at the June face-to-face meeting.

  - See below.

- **Yunhai Shang** and **Duncan Bees** to update CORE-V HAL plans to align
  with the RISC-V International strategy.

- **Joe Julicher** to - **Cathy Lee** and **Wang Shun** to submit Project Concept proposal for RT-Thread to become an OpenHW Group software project.

  - On HOLD pending RT-Thread joining OpenHW Group.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to ask Ming Xie to facilitate progress on the RT-Thread proposal.

- **Kevin Eyssartier** to give technical talk on Yocto at next Software TG  meeting on 10 July 2023.

  - Scheduled for next meeting.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to convey to Yunhai Shang the meeting's thanks for his service as Vice-Chair of Group.

  - COMPLETE.

- **Duncan Bees** to lead the process to identify candidates to be vice-chair of the Software TG.

- **Duncan Bees** to convene a meeting to decide the future of the HAL project.

- **Nandni Jamnadas** and **Chunyu Liao** to use upstream QEMU for CORE-V to test respectively the GNU and LLVM tool chains.

## Report back from TWG (3 minutes allocated)

Duncan Bees to report on key issues affecting the Software TG from the meeting of 27 May 2023.

## Reports from current projects (5 minutes allocated)

Active projects under the Software Task Group will have provided a written report in advance (seet the [project specific directories](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects) of the [core-v-sw](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw) repository. We also have one project under the Hardware Task Group which also reports into us.

Each project leader is asked to present any key issues for which community input from the meeting is required.  Project leaders will also take any questions.

- CORE-V GNU Tools - Nandni Jamnadas
- CORE-V FreeRTOS - Joe Julicher
- CORE-V Clang/LLVM - Charlie Keaney and Chunyu Liao
- Hardware Abstraction Layer - no report pending new lead
- CORE-V SDK/IDE - Hugh O'Keefe
- CORE-V Verilator modeling (HW TG project) - Jeremy Bennett
- QEMU for Core-V - WeiWei Li

## Status of HAL project (2 minutes)

This project lacks any leadership at present.  Duncan Bees to advise on the process for identifying a new lead or closing the project.

## Update to Builtin Spec (5 minutes)

The builtin spec was ratified last month.  Since then we have found a number of small discrepancies.  We propose preparing a draft version 1.1 of the specification, which will collect these various discrepancies, for ratification later in the year.

We propose also adding a note about this to the version 1.0 ratified specification to warn users of forthcoming changes.

## Project Launch and Plan Approval for Verilator modeling for software (10 minutes)

The project launch document describes the generic project to create Verilator models of CORE-V processors for software use.

The plan approval document is specific to the Verilator model for CV32E40Pv2

The draft documents are in a [PR #596](https://github.com/openhwgroup/programs/pull/596).  Jeremy Bennett to present.

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets every two months at 15:00 UK Time on the second Monday of odd numbered months. We have an additional in-person meeting at RISC-V Eurosummit on the afternoon of 5 June. On other even numbered months projects submit reports.

| Date        | Activity                            |
| :---------- | :---------------------------------- |
| 10 Jul 2023 | Meeting and report                  |
| 14 Aug 2023 | Report only                         |
| 11 Sep 2023 | Meeting and report                  |
| 9 Oct 2023  | Report only                         |
| 13 Nov 2023 | Meeting and report                  |
| 14 Dec 2023 | Face-to-face meeting TBC (Thursday) |

The December meeting depends on the face-to-face meeting taking place next year, and if so its date.

## AOB


Jeremy Bennett, Chair\
Yunhai Shang, Vice-Chair
