# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Agenda

Monday 11 Sep 2023

- 07:00-08:00 Pacific Time
- 10:00-11:00 East Coast Time
- 14:00-15:00 UTC
- 15:00-16:00 UK Time
- 16:00-17:00 Central European Time
- 22:00-23:00 Beijing Time

## Location

Zoom meeting.

- [us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761?pwd=M2kwRzNCUG82UFlJT0NMbnJPSXBCZz09](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761?pwd=M2kwRzNCUG82UFlJT0NMbnJPSXBCZz09)
- Meeting ID: 851 9441 6761
- Find your local number: [us02web.zoom.us/u/kuUW3yscL](https://us02web.zoom.us/u/kuUW3yscL)

# Agenda topics

## Register of attendance, introductions and apologies

We are recording attendance at meetings, so OpenHW Group can track membership in accordance with article 4 of the membership agreement. This matters particularly when email ballots are held, to ensure the voters represent member organizations who are active on the group. The attendance records are can be seen in the [program](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/tree/master/program) directory of the [core-v-docs repository](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs).

## Review of actions (5 minutes allocated)

- **Nandni Jamnadas** and **Chunyu Liao** to use upstream QEMU for CORE-V to test respectively the GNU and LLVM tool chains.
  - IN PROGRESS, with assistance on the GNU side from **Mary Bennett** and  **Pietra Ferreira**.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to propose HAL project closure at next TWG (24 July)
  - POSTPONED to September TWG.

- **Duncan Bees** to follow up with **Rick O'Connor** on whether the use of MIT license is appropriate for the OpenHW Yocto layer.

- **Anjali Gedam** to submit the PA proposal for FreeRTOS for CVA6 as pull-request, and post the link to the Software TG channel on MM for any further review comments before it goes to TWG ballot.

## New project lead for overall LLVM project (5 minutes allocated)

Charlie Keaney stepped down as lead for the overall LLVM project at the end of June.  We propose **Paolo Savini** as new lead for the overall LLVM project.  Paolo has been leading the weekly CORE-V LLVM engineering calls for a while, and has deep experience in LLVM development.

**Note.** **Chunyu Liao** continues to lead the LLVM for CV32E40Pv2 project.  This proposal is for overall leadership for all targets.

## New co-project lead for GNU tools project (5 minutes allocated)

Nandni Jamnadas has returned to her academic studies, but will still work leading the GNU tools project.  To assist her in this work, we propose **Mary Bennett** as co-project lead for the GNU tools project.  Mary has been leading the weekly CORE-V GNU tools engineering calls when Nandi is unavailable, and is also leading the upstreaming of the CORE-V GNU tools.  She has long experience in RISC-V and GNU tools development, including 3 years as head of University outreach for the RISC-V Foundation.

## Committer elections

We are pleased to report that **Paolo Savini** and **Mary Bennett** have been elected as CORE-V committers.

## Report back from TWG (5 minutes allocated)

Duncan Bees to report on key issues affecting the Software TG from the meetings
of 24 July and 28 August 2023.

## Reports from current projects (10 minutes allocated)

Active projects under the Software Task Group will have provided a written report in advance (see the [project specific directories](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects) of the [core-v-sw](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw) repository. We also have one project under the Hardware Task Group which also reports into us.

Each project leader is asked to present any key issues for which community input from the meeting is required.  Project leaders will also take any questions.

- CORE-V GNU Tools - Nandni Jamnadas/Mary Bennett
- CORE-V FreeRTOS - Joe Julicher
- CORE-V Clang/LLVM - Paolo Savini and Chunyu Liao
- CORE-V SDK/IDE - Hugh O'Keefe
- CORE-V Verilator modeling for software - Jeremy Bennett
- QEMU for Core-V - WeiWei Li

## Succession planning (5 minutes allocated)

As you know we are without a vice-chair, and I would like to step back from chairing the group at the end of this year, since I have served for 3 years.  If you might be interested in taking either of these roles, please speak to me or Duncan Bees

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets every two months at 15:00 UK Time on the second Monday of odd numbered months.  On other even numbered months projects submit reports.  Now that dates of the RISC-V Summit are confirmed, we anticipate that November's meeting will be face-to-face and a week earlier than our regular schedule.

| Date        | Activity                              |
| :---------- | :------------------------------------ |
| 14 Aug 2023 | Report only                           |
| 11 Sep 2023 | Meeting and report                    |
|  9 Oct 2023 | Report only                           |
|  6 Nov 2023 | Face-to-face meeting (TBC) and report |
| 14 Dec 2023 | Report only                           |

The November meeting is scheduled a week early to coincide with the RISC-V Summit, and depends on the face-to-face meeting taking place on that date.

## AOB


Jeremy Bennett, Chair
