# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Agenda

Monday 10 Jul 2023

- 07:00-08:00 Pacific Time
- 10:00-11:00 East Coast Time
- 14:00-15:00 UTC
- 15:00-16:00 UK Time
- 16:00-17:00 Central European Time
- 22:00-23:00 Beijing Time

## Location

Zoom meeting.

- [us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761?pwd=M2kwRzNCUG82UFlJT0NMbnJPSXBCZz09](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761?pwd=M2kwRzNCUG82UFlJT0NMbnJPSXBCZz09)
- Meeting ID: 851 9441 6761
- Find your local number: [us02web.zoom.us/u/kuUW3yscL](https://us02web.zoom.us/u/kuUW3yscL)

# Agenda topics

## Register of attendance, introductions and apologies

We are recording attendance at meetings, so OpenHW Group can track membership in accordance with article 4 of the membership agreement. This matters particularly when email ballots are held, to ensure the voters represent member organizations who are active on the group. The attendance records are can be seen in the [program](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/tree/master/program) directory of the [core-v-docs repository](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs).

## Review of actions (5 minutes allocated)

- **Jeremy Bennett** to take CORE-V Verilator Modeling project through Project Launch gate at the June face-to-face meeting.

  - COMPLETE. Due to be presented to TWG in July 2023.

- **Yunhai Shang** and **Duncan Bees** to update CORE-V HAL plans to align
  with the RISC-V International strategy.

  - CLOSED. Absent any HAL leadership, there is nothing to be progressed.

- **Joe Julicher** to - **Cathy Lee** and **Wang Shun** to submit Project
  Concept proposal for RT-Thread to become an OpenHW Group software project

  - On HOLD pending RT-Thread joining OpenHW Group.

- **Kevin Eyssartier** to give technical talk on Yocto at next Software TG  meeting on 10 July 2023.

  - See below.

- **Duncan Bees** to convene a meeting to decide the future of the HAL project.

- **Nandni Jamnadas** and **Chunyu Liao** to use upstream QEMU for CORE-V to test respectively the GNU and LLVM tool chains.

  - CLOSED without success.

## Report back from TWG (5 minutes allocated)

Duncan Bees to report on key issues affecting the Software TG from the meeting
of 26 June 2023.

## Reports from current projects (10 minutes allocated)

Active projects under the Software Task Group will have provided a written report in advance (seet the [project specific directories](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects) of the [core-v-sw](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw) repository. We also have one project under the Hardware Task Group which also reports into us.

Each project leader is asked to present any key issues for which community input from the meeting is required.  Project leaders will also take any questions.

- CORE-V GNU Tools - Nandni Jamnadas
- CORE-V FreeRTOS - Joe Julicher
- CORE-V Clang/LLVM - Jeremy Bennett (acting) and Chunyu Liao
- Hardware Abstraction Layer
  - Project in abeyance in the absence of leadership
- CORE-V SDK/IDE - Hugh O'Keefe
- CORE-V Verilator modeling (HW TG project) - Jeremy Bennett
- QEMU for Core-V - WeiWei Li

## Yocto for CVA6 (15 minutes allocated)

Kevin Eyssartier will give a technical presentation on Yocto for CVA6, following on from the overview last month by Jerome Quevremont.  This is a candidate OpenHW Group software project.

## FreeRTOS for CVA6

This was presented at the TWG of 26 June, but has yet to be shared with the Software Task Group, so is retropectively being presented here by Anjali Gedam.

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets every two months at 15:00 UK Time on the second Monday of odd numbered months. We have an additional in-person meeting at RISC-V Eurosummit on the afternoon of 5 June. On other even numbered months projects submit reports.

| Date        | Activity                            |
| :---------- | :---------------------------------- |
| 14 Aug 2023 | Report only                         |
| 11 Sep 2023 | Meeting and report                  |
| 9 Oct 2023  | Report only                         |
| 13 Nov 2023 | Meeting and report                  |
| 14 Dec 2023 | Face-to-face meeting TBC (Thursday) |

The December meeting depends on the face-to-face meeting taking place next year, and if so its date.

## AOB


Jeremy Bennett, Chair
