# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Minutes

Monday 13 Nov 2023, 15:00 UTC

## Attendees and welcome new members

See the separate [attendance register](https://github.com/openhwgroup/programs/blob/master/TWG-and-TG-Attendance-Tracking/TGSoftware_Attendance_2023.md)

# Meeting topics

## Succession planning

Paolo Savini (Hi!) has succeeded Jeremy as chair. We are still missing a vice-chair. If you might be interested in taking this role, please speak to me or Duncan Bees.

## Review of actions

- **Nandni Jamnadas** and **Chunyu Liao** to use upstream QEMU for CORE-V to test respectively the GNU and LLVM tool chains.
  - IN PROGRESS, with assistance on the GNU side from **Mary Bennett** and  **Pietra Ferreira**.

- **Duncan Bees** to follow up with **Rick O'Connor** on whether the use of MIT license is appropriate for the OpenHW Yocto layer.
  - **Kevin Essartier** is not at Thales any more.
  - Mark this action as STOPPED.

- **Duncan Bees** and **Rameez Syed** to set up a meeting to start working on a project proposal for the SystemC/TML 2.0 modeling of the CORE-V MCU.

- **Paolo Savini** to confirm the status of the QEMU project with the PLCT team.

## Report back from TWG

Duncan Bees to report on key issues affecting the Software TG from the meeting of 23 October 2023.

- Topics from the last TWG meeting focused on the Polara DevKit and the CVA6 projects.

- CVA6 would be a good candidate for the universal vendor-independent application class processor that RISC-V lacks. Even better with vector extension.

Reminder:
- [Project dashboard](https://github.com/openhwgroup/programs/blob/master/dashboard/Dashboard_SpreadSheetFriendly.md) has been updated:
  - **Action:** All please check all project dashboard data for software task-groups.

## Reports from current projects

Active projects under the Software Task Group will have provided a written report in advance (see the [project specific directories](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects) of the [core-v-sw](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw) repository. We also have one project under the Hardware Task Group which also reports into us.

Each project leader is asked to present any key issues for which community input from the meeting is required.  Project leaders will also take any questions.

- CORE-V GNU Tools - Nandni Jamnadas/Mary Bennett
  - All GCC patches (builtins) for the extensions have been merged upstream.
  - Still some work to do on the binutils patches (assembly/disassembly support).
- CORE-V FreeRTOS - Joe Julicher
  - All changes have been merged with the main repo.
  - The tip of the repo in now being used for the SDK of the CORE-V MCU devkit so that
    the next LTS release is supplied with the SDK.
- CORE-V Clang/LLVM - Paolo Savini and Chunyu Liao
  - Almost all the patches have been implemented in the CORE-V Clang/LLVM, most asm/disas patches have landed upstream.
  - The focus now is to get the rest of the patches approved upstream and C API headers agreed upon and ready for upstream.
- CORE-V SDK/IDE - Hugh O'Keefe
  - Latest release: CORE-V-SDK Alpha v0005 03-Nov-3023.
  - Joseph Julicer (Amazon) is working on the FreeRTOS port for the devkit.
  - Planned release Alpha v0006.
- CORE-V Verilator modeling for software - Jeremy Bennett
  - Work is ongoing. JTAG pins to X-Heep Verilator model work.
  - Halt requests through JTAG don't work properly yet. Shane Slattery is assisting with this.
  - Next steps will involve running programs through gdb, creating a linker script and consecutively running GCC regressions and Embench while accelerating the model with DPI memory access for program loading.
- QEMU for Core-V - WeiWei Li
  - No updates yet. **Action:** **Paolo Savini** to confirm the status of the profect with the PLCT team.

## Short presentation from Rameez Syed: SystemC for Core-V-MCU

Interesting presentation from Rameez Syed about the verification of systems through SystemC/TML 2.0 and its role in shortening the roll out time.
Rameez proposes to create a SystemC/TML 2.0 model for the CORE-V MCU.
This would be a cycle approximate model that is considerably faster then an RTL simulation.
The focus of the modelization would be on the peripherals of the CORE-V MCU, even peripherals that haven't been implemented yet in RTL.
The models created will be made available as open source, apart from the contributions that might come from third parties they might cooperate with.
An issue about the documentation not being clear enough has been raised. For any lack or any contribution an issue or a pull request will be opened.

**Action:** **Duncan Bees** and **Rameez Syed** to set up a meeting to start working on a project proposal for the SystemC/TML 2.0 modeling of the CORE-V MCU.

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets every two months at 15:00 UK Time on the second Monday of odd numbered months.  On other even numbered months projects submit reports.

| Date        | Activity                              |
| :---------- | :------------------------------------ |
| 14 Dec 2023 | Report only                           |
|  8 Jan 2024 | Meeting and report                    |
| 12 Feb 2024 | Report only                           |
| 11 Mar 2024 | Meeting and report                    |

## AOB


Paolo Savini, Chair
