# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Minutes

Monday 9 August 2021, 14:00 UTC

## Attendees and welcome new members

See separate [attendance register](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/blob/master/program/TGSoftware_Attendance_2021.md)

The following new member was welcomed.

- Wei Wu of the PLCT lab at the Chinese Academy of Sciences

## Summary of actions

- **Hugh Pollitt-Smith** to add fixing hardware issues found by software teams to next Hardware TG meeting.

- **Greg Martin** to review issues [#149](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-mcu/issues/149) and [#115](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-mcu/issues/115) raised by Robert Balas for the FreeRTOS project.

- **Jessica Mills** to discuss HAL tool chain issues with Yunhai Shang.

- **Olive Zhao** and **Yunhai Shang** to present comparative analsysis of the various HAL approaches against the requirements specified in the Project Concept document at the next meeting.

- **Wei Wu** to talk to **Jessica Mills** (GNU tool chain) and **Philipp Krones** (CV32E40P LLVM tool chain) about incorporating the PLCT work in the official CORE-V tool chain repositories.

# Meeting topics

## Review of actions

- **Richard Barry** to make a central list of all the different hardware FreeRTOS must support. Initially via Mattermost, but can be committed to the [core-v-sw](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw) repository in the [projects/freertos](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/tree/master/projects/freertos) directory.

  - Deferred, since Richard was not present.

- **Robert Balas** and **Shteryana Shopova** to consider running separate monthly calls for all those interested in FreeRTOS to coordinate actions.

  - Complete. currently doesn't look like there is support for this. Keep under review.

- **All** to consider leading the SDK project.

  - Contact Jeremy, Duncan, Florian or Rick if you can help.

## Report back from TWG

The following concept project proposal was presented and has been sent for electronic voting approval.

- Taiga processor core project concept (Simon Fraser University)

The meeting considered all the different projects surrounding the development kit and SDK (see agenda item [Requirements for the CORE-V MCU developer board SDK](#requirements-for-the-core-v-mcu-developer-board-sdk).

## Reports from current projects

Active projects under the SW TG have provided a written report in advance.

### CORE-V IDE

See [report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/ide/2021/monthly-report-2021-08-09.md) by Alexander Fedorov in the Software TG repository.

- main focus is support additional license check when installing extra bundles.  The idea is to allow a way for proprietary contributors to the IDE.

### CORE-V GNU Tools

See [report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/gnu-tools/2021/monthly-report-2021-08-09.md) by Jessica Mills in the Software TG repository.

- pushed rebased binutils to CORE-V
- rebasing remaining instructions
- working on writing GCC tests for extensions

### CORE-V FreeRTOS

See [report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/freertos/2021/monthly-report-08-aug-21.md) by Robert Balas and Shteryana Shopova in the Software TG repository.

- the same issues remain regarding RTL simulation.

**Action:** Hugh Pollitt-Smith to add fixing hardware issues found by software teams to next Hardware TG meeting.

Mike Thompson noted that primary repository has been with Quicklogic and is being moved to the OpenHW organization on GitHub. Main approach is to raise issues with the `core-v-mcu` repository.

Greg Martin noted that as of now, the two repositories are aligned.

Robert Balas noted that the two issues are already raised against the OpenHW `core-v-mcu` repository (see his monthly report).
- [#149](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-mcu/issues/149)
- [#115](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-mcu/issues/115)

**Action:** Greg Martin to review issues [#149](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-mcu/issues/149) and [#115](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-mcu/issues/115) raised by Robert Balas for the FreeRTOS project.

### CORE-V Clang/LLVM

CV32E40P: No change this month.

CVA6: No report.

### Hardware Abstraction Layer

See [report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/hal/2021/monthly-report-2021-08-09.md) by Yunhai Shang in the Software TG repository.

- putting a minimal system together
- hello world now working on Genesys2 board
- found problems with CORE-V tool chain.
  - may be newlib issue
- also pushing in RISC-V International

**Action:** Jessica Mills to discuss HAL tool chain issues with Yunhai Shang.

Question about comparitive analysis of different HAL approaches needed. Already done some already in project concept.

**Action:** Olive Zhao and Yunhai Shang to present comparative analsysis of the various HAL approaches against the requirements specified in the Project Concept document at the next meeting.

Olive Zhao presented a first demonstration of the HAL for a "Hello World!" program.

### CORE-V Verilator modeling (joint project with Hardware TG)

See [report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/blob/master/hw/projects/verilator-model/2021/20210809-report.md) by Jeremy Bennett in the CORE-V documents repository.

- All but one DMI registers now implemented.
- JTAG interface more complex than suspected and suffering from inadequacies of documentation, leading to delay.
- Resource shortage: second milestone delayed 7 weeks, overally project 5 weeks.
- Plan for the week: complete and test complete JTAG TAP model.

## Tool chain support for CV32E41P

Wei Wu of CAS PLCT lab is currently working on LLVM tools for `Zce`.  All the source code is on GitHub.  Also need modifications to the linker (both GNU ld and LLD).  Using the LLVM integrated assembler.  GCC will follow.  Repositories are:

- https://github.com/plctlab/llvm-project/tree/riscv-zce-extension
- https://github.com/linsinan1995/riscv-binutils-gdb/tree/riscv-binutils-experiment-zce
- https://github.com/linsinan1995/riscv-gcc/tree/riscv-gcc-experiment-zcee

**Action:** Wei Wu to talk to Jessica Mills (GNU tool chain) and Philipp Krones (CV32E40P LLVM tool chain) about incorporating the PLCT work in the official CORE-V tool chain repositories.

## Requirements for the CORE-V MCU developer board SDK

This was a continuation of the analysis from the July meeting.  At that point we had established some core requirements.

We are planning to build up to 10,000 development kits, of which the SDK will be a key part.  To date we have established the following key features and points of note.

- The SDK is central to a positive "out-of-the-box" experience for end users.
- The SDK needs to include IDE, compilers, libraries and examples.
- The SDK must include example programs that can run immediately and then be modified.

  - start with toggling LEDs
  - must have examples to exercise all peripherals

- FreeRTOS will be important, so the SDK must support this as well as bare metal.
- The board will include a user programmable FPGA, which adds to the scope of project.  The plan is to use Symbiflow (open source) HW design tools to support this.

Duncan Bees presented his [summary slides](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/blob/master/TWG/MeetingPresentations/CORE-MCU-and-related-projects.pptx) from the TWG meeting, where there had been further discussion.

Yunhai Shang reiterated the importance of having lots of examples.

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets monthly at 07:00 Pacific Time on the second Monday of the month.

- 13 Sep 2021
- 11 Oct 2021
- 08 Nov 2021
- 13 Dec 2021

Jeremy Bennett, Chair\
Yunhai Shang, Vice-Chair
