# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Minutes

Monday 8 February 2021, 15:00 UTC

## Attendees and welcome new members

See separate [attendance register](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/blob/master/program/TGSoftware_Attendance_2021.md)

The following new members were welcomed.

- Anjali Indrapal Gedam and Subhra Kanti from Thales
- Serkan Muhcu and Christoph Gerum from University of Tübingen

## Summary of actions

- **Florian Zaruba** to reach out 1:1 to OpenHW Group members to see if anoyone would like to contribute/lead a project to develop a Hardware Abstraction Layer (both for software and hardware use).

- **Ivan Kravets** and **Duncan Bees** to liaise about creating a prelminary project proposal for a CORE-V PlatformIO project.

- **Alexander Fedorov** and **Simon Davidmann** to discuss most appropriate approach to licensing, involving **Rick O'Connor** as appropriate.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to schedule final discussion on platforms and core models for software engineers for the meeting on 8 March 2021.

# Meeting topics

## Review of actions

- **Florian Zaruba** to reach out 1:1 to OpenHW Group members to see if anoyone would like to contribute/lead a project to develop a Hardware Abstraction Layer (both for software and hardware use).

  - In the absence of Florian Zaruba, deferred to next meeting.

- **Ivan Kravets and Duncan Bees** to liaise about creating a prelminary project proposal for a CORE-V PlatformIO project.

  - No update, deferred to next meeting.

- **Simon Davidmann, Alexander Fedorov and Ivan Kravets** to work out how OVPSim for CORE-V can be included within Eclispse CDT and PlatformIO.

  - Addressed under agenda item [Platform and core models for software engineers](#platform-and-core-models-for-software-engineers)

- **Jeremy Bennett** to schedule time for a fuller discussion of models for use by software engineers at the next meeting.

  - Complete - see agenda item [Platform and core models for software engineers](#platform-and-core-models-for-software-engineers)

## Report back from TWG

Report by Duncan Bees

- CVA6 has moved from PPL to PL gate, Thales team working on a project plan.
- CV32E40Pv2 at PPL stage, but more work to do, organizational issues to
  identified.

  - first use of generic extension mechanism, which will be used for all CORE-V cores

## Reports from current projects

All active projects under the SW TG have provided a written report in advance.

### CORE-V IDE

See [report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/ide/2021/monthly-report-2021-02-08.md) by Alexander Fedorov in repository.

- some improvements to IDE, include welcome page
- able to commit to remote host provided by QuickLogic

### CORE-V GNU Tools

See [report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/gnu-tools/2021/monthly-report-2021-02-08.md) by Jessica Mills in repository.

Noted recent issue with binutils upstream highlighted importance of FSF copyright assigments.

### CORE-V FreeRTOS

See [report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/freertos/2021/monthly-report-11-jan-21.md) by Shteryana Shopova and Robert Balas in repository.

- project running slower than expected
- repositories to be moved to OpenHW
- decision to use flat repos (no sub-modules)

  - need to finalize details with Florian Zaruba

### CORE-V Clang/LLVM

See [report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/clang-llvm/2021/monthly-report-2021-02-08.md) by Philipp Krones and André Szintoff in repository.

- Thales team about to start work on CVA6 and will look for help getting up to speed via MatterMost.
- CV32E40P to incorporate work from Serkan Muhcu and Christoph Gerum from University of Tübingen.

##  Eclipse SIG for embedded software tool developers

Brian King from the Eclipse Foundation will presented news of this initiative. Attendees were asked to comment on the proposal via [Google Docs](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Rk4t8kcUmIOx9jiGqQ4YbuU0Vh1DiaaGUOAW-mH_oi8).

Brian also encouraged the group to engage with the Eclipse Theia [Blueprint application](https://github.com/eclipse-theia/theia-blueprint )

## Platform and core models for software engineers

Within the remit of the Software TG is provision of models for use by software engineers.  This discussion will be informed by

### Overview

The chair presented an overview of drivers for this project.

- **User experience.** The ability to try out CORE-V from a download without hardware.

- **Availability.** The ability to work on CORE-V where hardware is not available (embargoed or still in development)

- **Mass software development.** Equipping every engineer with hardware is expensive both financially and in the time of helping software engineers handle real hardware.

- **Software testing.** CD/CI&T is often much simpler using software models rather than physical hardware.

The chair noted that there were various ways of categorizing models used by software engineers.  Software models may model just the processor core, or the complete system and typically are a trade off between model performance  and timing accuracy.

- **Compiling software emulation.** Examples QEMU, Renode, OVPSim. Typically model the entire system, run at 10-500MHz, but offer limited timing accuracy.

- **Instruction Set Simulators.** Examples include CGEN/TableGen and hand-written ISS. Model only the processor core and typically run at 100kHz-10MHz, instruction count, but not cycle accurate.

- **Cycle accurate models.** Examples include GHDL/Verilator and hand-written models. Can model either the processor or the complete system, typically run at 10kHz - 1MHz offering cycle accuracy.

- **Event driven simulation.** Examples include Xcellium, VCS, Questa and Icarus Verilog. Typically model the entire system and run at 100Hz-10kHz with 4-state logic and intra-cycle timing.

- **Hybrid models.** A combination of techniques, typically a very fast model of the processor and more accurate models of peripherals.

### Report from Mike Thompson

Mike Thompson had an action to move this area forward, but could not be present. He reported in writing as follows:

- He has investigated availability of software models for the peripheral CORE-V-MCU and came to the conclusion that building it using Verilator yields the shortest path to partial success.

- Input from Alexander Fedorov on the needs of the IDE project is awaited.

- Recommend the Software TG support the Verilator Modeling project.

Mike notes We may find later that the performance is insufficient for our needs, but it will get us started and give us something that actually works with modest effort. Should it be determined that we require better performance, the use of non-cycle accurate models (e.g. Imperas OVPSim for the core(s)) can be investigated.

### OVPSim

Simon Davidmann of Imperas presented OVPSim (slides [here](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/meetings/supplementary-materials/2021/imperas-models-for-openhw-sw-developers-feb21-0.pdf)). Their high performance proven models can be used in a number of ways:
- wrapped for design an verification.
- wrapped for ISS
- wrapped for full platform, including peripherals

The chair noted that the group's #1 charter goal supported development of both proprietary and open source markets for commercial tools development.

### Verilator modeling for CORE-V MCU and FPGA SoC

The draft PPL, currently available as [PR #342](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/pull/342) in the `core-v-docs` repository was presented by Alfredo Herrera.  This project is the responsibility of the Hardware TG, but will also report to the Software TG.

### General discussion

Alexander Fedorov asked about licensing of OVPsim for the IDE. Simon Davidmann responded:
- model is available under an Apache license;
- most of examples are free;
- simulator engine is proprietary;
- users do not have to pay for models; and
- detailed licensing arrangements need discussion with OpenHW Group

**ACTION:** Alexander Fedorov and Simon Davidmann to discuss most appropriate approach to licensing, involving Rick O'Connor as appropriate.

The summary of the discussion so far:

- Software TG should support the development of the Verilator modeling project, because of its value to software applications which require either strictly cycle accurate modeling or a purely open source model.
- There was no challenge to the view that Imperas OVPSim meets all other software modeling needs at present for the OpenHW Group project.

Because time ran out, the subject will be scheduled again for the next meeting, to allow others to speak and to reach a final decision.

**ACTION:** Jeremy Bennett to schedule final discussion on platforms and core models for software engineers for the meeting on 8 March 2021.

## New potential projects

There was no time to discuss the following projects, which will be scheduled for future meetings.

- Extension of existing projects to CVA6 and CVE2
- Linux support

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets monthly at 07:00 Pacific Time on the second Monday of the month.

- 08 Mar 2021
- 12 Apr 2021
- 10 May 2021
- 14 Jun 2021
- 12 Jul 2021
- 09 Aug 2021
- 13 Sep 2021
- 11 Oct 2021
- 08 Nov 2021
- 13 Dec 2021

Jeremy Bennett, Chair\
Yunhai Shang, Vice-Chair
