# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Minutes

Monday 8 November 2021, 14:00 UTC

## Attendees and welcome new members

See separate [attendance register](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/blob/master/program/TGSoftware_Attendance_2021.md)

Apologies were received from Jessica Mills and Alexander Fedorov

Welcome to Adomas from University of Southampton

## Summary of actions

- **Olive Zhao** to convene a standalone meeting to discuss requirements for the HAL, which we bring in as many HAL experts as possible.

- **Jessica Mills** to roll forward GCC to include the B extension support.

- **Jessica Mills** to take CORE-V GNU Tools project through Project Launch gate.

- **Duncan Bees** to have conversation with Robert Balas, Shterana Shopova and Richard Barry about moving CORE-V FreeRTOS project to Project Launch gate.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to take CORE-V Verilator Modeling project through Project Launch gate.

- **Duncan Bees** and **Jeremy Bennett** to identify speakers who can inform our discussion on AI.

# Meeting topics

## Review of actions

- **Olive Zhao** will provide a pull-request for her analysis (in the `core-v-sw` repository, `projects/hal` directory). This will then be used as the basis for ongoing review and discussion. If appropriate, she will convenene a separate meeting to review the analysis.

  - Notes two things: 1) Comparison is between SDK implementations, not just the HAL; and 2) Some of the requirements are really SDK requirements, not HAL requirements.

  - There was discussion of what belongs in the HAL. For example does the description of the chip belong in the HAL or the SDK? One suggestion was that the CORE-V HAL should try to replicate the functionality of CMSIS Driver component.

  - The HAL team was asked to consider the recently announced Intel NIOS-V and its HAL. See the Intel oerview of the [NIOS II HAL](https://www.intel.com/content/dam/www/programmable/us/en/pdfs/literature/hb/nios2/n2sw_nii52003.pdf) on which this is reportedly based.

  - **Action:** Olive Zhao to convene a standalone meeting to discuss requirements for the HAL, which we bring in as many HAL experts as possible.

- **Greg Martin** to review issues [#149](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-mcu/issues/149) and [#115](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-mcu/issues/115) raised by Robert Balas for the FreeRTOS project.

  - Action held open pending confirmation of resolution.

## Report back from TWG

Reviewed Plan Approved gate for the CORE-V MCU. The documents are in the core-v-docs repository. The ballot is now out for approval.

## Reports from current projects

Active projects under the SW TG have provided a written report in advance.

### CORE-V IDE

See [report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/ide/2021/monthly-report-2021-11-08.md)

Highlights
- Did a talk about CORE-V at EclipseCon 2021
- Added Eclipse Passage 2.1.1 to CORE-V IDE
- Minor improvements.

### CORE-V GNU Tools

See [report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/gnu-tools/2021/monthly-report-2021-11-08.md) by Jessica Mills in the Software TG repository.

Highlights of CV32E40P support:
- continuing integration of GCC regression with gvsoc simulator to support entire test suite.
- no change to project status, all of binutils-gdb is done, GCC is work in progress.
- no change to test results
- continue to work through adding and testing GCC work.

Highlights of Zce support
- need B extension support in the baseline GCC https://github.com/openhwgroup/corev-gcc/issues/5
- **Action** Jessica Mills to roll forward GCC to include the B extension support.

### CORE-V FreeRTOS

See [report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/freertos/2021/monthly-report-08-nov-21.md) by Robert Balas and Shteryana Shopova in the Software TG repository.

- No progress this month.

### CORE-V Clang/LLVM

CV32E40P: No change this month.

CVA6: No report.

### Hardware Abstraction Layer

See discussion of Olive Zhao's analysis above

No progress this month, waiting on discussion of requirements being driven by Olive Zhao.

### Software Development Kit (SDK)

This has been approved as a project concept, but pending appointment of a
project manager, there will be no written monthly reports.  This month there
has been some publicity work carried out, but nothing more.

- Hugh O'Keefe to convene meeting to break down tasks to next level of detail to make it easier for members to pick up bits of tasks.

### CORE-V Verilator modeling (joint project with Hardware TG)

See [report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/blob/master/hw/projects/verilator-model/2021/20211011-swtg-report.md) by Jeremy Bennett in the CORE-V documents repository.

- Work has restarted

## Progress to Project Launch/Project Approval for Software TG projects

The great majority of our projects have passed Project Concept stage. We need to determine whether some are ready to progress to Project Launch or Project Approval stage. Broadly.

- **Project Concept** gate is when we have defined _what_ the project is to deliver.
- **Project Launch** gate is when we have defined _how_ the project is to develop its deliverables.
- **Project Approval** gate is when we have defined _when_ the project is to provide its deliverables.

Each stage provides more detail on the planning and delivery of the project.  At project launch gate you need a complete project plan and detailed risk analysis. At project approval gate that plan needs to be fully resourced.

- **CORE-V IDE.** At Project Concept
- **CORE-V GNU Tools.** At Project Concept, should go to Project Launch, well on the way towards Project Approval. **Action** Jessica Mills to take CORE-V GNU Tools project through Project Launch gate.
- **CORE-V FreeRTOS.** At Project Concept, but know what needs to be done, there is a roadmap for general RISC-V being worked on by Amazon. Not much more needed for CORE-V. Kernel has generic code with no library dependency. Examples directory then layers on the chip support, the HAL and the board specific device drivers. **Action** Duncan Bees to have conversation with Robert Balas, Shterana Shopova and Richard Barry about moving CORE-V FreeRTOS project to Project Launch gate.
- **Clang/LLVM.** At Project Concept
- **HAL.** At Project Concept
- **SDK.** At Project Concept
- **CORE-V Verilator Modeling**. At Project Concept, but read to go through Project Launch gate. **Action** Jeremy Bennett to take CORE-V Verilator Modeling project through Project Launch gate.

## AI projects

The recent EclipseCon BoF revealed how much work on AI is using CORE-V projects.  Duncan Bees laid out the position. This will be discussed at our next meeting.

**Action** Duncan Bees and Jeremy Bennett to identify speakers who can inform our discussion on AI.

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets monthly at 07:00 Pacific Time on the second Monday of the month.

**Note.** No meeting in December 2021.

- 10 Jan 2022
- 14 Feb 2022
- 14 Mar 2022
- 11 Apr 2022
- 9 May 2022
- 13 Jun 2022

Jeremy Bennett, Chair\
Yunhai Shang, Vice-Chair
