# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Agenda

Monday 8 November 2021

- 07:00-08:00 Pacific Time
- 10:00-11:00 East Coast Time
- 14:00-15:00 UTC
- 15:00-16:00 UK Time
- 16:00-17:00 Central European Time
- 22:00-23:00 Beijing Time

## Location

Zoom meeting.

- [us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761?pwd=M2kwRzNCUG82UFlJT0NMbnJPSXBCZz09](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761?pwd=M2kwRzNCUG82UFlJT0NMbnJPSXBCZz09)
- Meeting ID: 851 9441 6761
- Find your local number: [us02web.zoom.us/u/kuUW3yscL](https://us02web.zoom.us/u/kuUW3yscL)

# Agenda topics

## Register of attendance and introductions

We are recording attendance at meetings, so OpenHW Group can track membership in accordance with article 4 of the membership agreement. This matters particularly when email ballots are held, to ensure the voters represent member organizations who are active on the group. The attendance records are can be seen in the [program](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/tree/master/program) directory of the [core-v-docs repository](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs).

## Review of actions

- **Olive Zhao** will provide a pull-request for her analysis (in the `core-v-sw` repository, `projects/hal` directory). This will then be used as the basis for ongoing review and discussion. If appropriate, she will convenene a separate meeting to review the analysis.

  - Deferred from previous month

- **Greg Martin** to review issues [#149](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-mcu/issues/149) and [#115](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-mcu/issues/115) raised by Robert Balas for the FreeRTOS project.

  - Action held open pending confirmation of resolution.

## Report back from TWG (5 minutes allocated)

## Reports from current projects (15 minutes allocated)

Active projects under the Software Task Group will have provided a written report in advance. We also have one project under the Hardware Task Group which also reports into us.

Each project leader is asked to present any key issues for which community input frm the meeting is required. They will also take any questions.

- CORE-V IDE - Alexander Fedorov
- CORE-V GNU Tools - Jessica Mills
- CORE-V FreeRTOS - Robert Balas and Shteryana Shopova
- CORE-V Clang/LLVM - Philipp Krones and Zbigniew Chamski
- Hardware Abstraction Layer - Yunhain Shang and Olive Zhao
- Software Development Kit - Hugh O'Keefe
- CORE-V Verilator modeling (HW TG project) - Jeremy Bennett

## Progress to Project Launch/Project Approval for Software TG projects

The great majority of our projects have passed Project Concept stage. We need to determine whether some are ready to progress to Project Launch or Project Approval stage. Broadly.

- **Project Concept** gate is when we have defined _what_ the project is to deliver.
- **Project Launch** gate is when we have defined _how_ the project is to develop its deliverables.
- **Project Approval** gate is when we have defined _when_ the project is to provide its deliverables.

Each stage provides more detail on the planning and delivery of the project.  At project launch gate you need a complete project plan and detailed risk analysis. At project approval gate that plan needs to be fully resourced.

## AI projects

The recent EclipseCon BoF revealed how much work on AI is using CORE-V projects.  This agenda item is an open discussion to explore any software projects we might consequentially need to provide.

## New potential projects

If time permits we will start discussion on the following topics.

- Extension of existing projects to CV32E40X, CV32E40S, CV32E41P, CVA6 and CVE2

  - GNU tools and FreeRTOS are currently scoped for CV32E40P and need to be considered for CVA6 and CVE2.

## AOB

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets monthly at 07:00 Pacific Time on the second Monday of the month.

- 13 Dec 2021
- 10 Jan 2022
- 14 Feb 2022
- 14 Mar 2022
- 11 Apr 2022
- 9 May 2022
- 13 Jun 2022


Jeremy Bennett, Chair\
Yunhai Shang, Vice-Chair
