# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Agenda

Monday 12 April 2021

- 07:00-08:00 Pacific Time
- 10:00-11:00 East Coast Time
- 14:00-15:00 UTC
- 15:00-16:00 UK Time
- 16:00-17:00 Central European Time
- 22:00-23:00 Beijing Time

## Location

Zoom meeting

- [us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761)
- Meeting ID: 851 9441 6761
- Find your local number: [us02web.zoom.us/u/kcVlqVA9vi](https://us02web.zoom.us/u/kcVlqVA9vi)

# Agenda topics

## Register of attendance and introductions

We are recording attendance at meetings, so OpenHW Group can track membership in accordance with article 4 of the membership agreement. This matters particularly when email ballots are held, to ensure the voters represent member organizations who are active on the group. The attendance records are can be seen in the [program](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/tree/master/program) directory of the [core-v-docs repository](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs).

## Review of actions

- **Jeremy Bennett** & **Duncan Bees** to review all software projects to determine what steps are needed to advance to Project Launch stage.

  - not progressed.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to coordinate with group leaders to prepare their presentations for OpenHW Day.

  - Complete. OpenHW Day successfully delivered.

- **Rick O'Connor** to look at legal aspects of building on CMSIS to determine our "freedom of action" - how and what can we do

  - Complete. Arm CMSIS is Apache licensed.

- **All** to consider if they could lead a group of technical experts to develop our plans for HAL.

  - Complete. Yunhai Shang has stepped forward to lead this project. See agenda item [Hardware abstraction layer](#hardware-abstraction-layer).

## Report back from TWG (5 minutes allocated)

Report by the chair and Duncan Bees.

## Reports from current projects (15 minutes allocated)

Active projects under the Software Task Group will have provided a written report in advance. We also have one project under the Hardware Task Group which also reports into us.

Each project leader is asked to present any key issues for which community input frm the meeting is required. They will also take any questions.

- CORE-V IDE - Alexander Fedorov
- CORE-V GNU Tools - Jessica Mills
- CORE-V FreeRTOS - Robert Balas and Shteryana Shopova
- CORE-V Clang/LLVM - Philipp Krones and Zbigniew Chamski
  - Thales
    - focus on functional validation of LLVM 12.0.0-rc1 (review of statsus for bugs seen in v10/v11 on `riscv-dv`)
    - objectives:
      - single multitarget toolchain for CV*64
      - future: support for B, V and K extensions (V development happens predominantly in LLVM)
    - functional validation of non-FP operation on Linux 64- *and* 32-bit using Ariane SDK, Spike and RTL simulation
    
- CORE-V Verilator modeling (HW TG project) - Alfredo Herrera

## OpenHW TV: 22 April 2021 (5 minutes allocated)

The Software TG will be the center of the next OpenHW TV episode.  This will allow us to reuse the work from OpenHW Day.  We are planning three 10 minute segments, followed by the usual Q&A

- **GCC & LLVM** - Jessica Mills and Philipp Krones
- **FreeRTOS** - Shteryana Shopova and Robert Balas
- **IDEs** - Alexander Fedorov and Ivan Kravets

The OpenHW Day Mattmermost channel has been renamed and repurposed to coordinate the work.

## PlatformIO project proposal (5 minutes allocated)

Ivan Kravets and Duncan Bees will report progress with the concept proposal.

## Hardware abstraction layer (10 minutes allocated)

Vice-chair of this group, Yunhai Shang, and his colleagues at Alibaba have volunteered to lead this project, for which many thanks.  They will report on progress as they move towards concept propsal approval.

## New potential projects

If time permits we will start discussion on the following topics.

- Linux

  - with the development of the CVA6 architecture, particularly its 64-bit version, this will become an urgent priority.

- Extension of existing projects to CVA6 and CVE2

  - GNU tools and FreeRTOS are currently scoped for CV32E40P and need to be considered for CVA6 and CVE2.

## AOB

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets monthly at 07:00 Pacific Time on the second Monday of the month.

- 10 May 2021
- 14 Jun 2021
- 12 Jul 2021
- 09 Aug 2021
- 13 Sep 2021
- 11 Oct 2021
- 08 Nov 2021
- 13 Dec 2021

Jeremy Bennett, Chair\
Yunhai Shang, Vice-Chair
