# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Agenda

Monday 13 September 2021

- 07:00-08:00 Pacific Time
- 10:00-11:00 East Coast Time
- 14:00-15:00 UTC
- 15:00-16:00 UK Time
- 16:00-17:00 Central European Time
- 22:00-23:00 Beijing Time

## Location

Zoom meeting.

- [us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761?pwd=M2kwRzNCUG82UFlJT0NMbnJPSXBCZz09](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761?pwd=M2kwRzNCUG82UFlJT0NMbnJPSXBCZz09)
- Meeting ID: 851 9441 6761
- Find your local number: [us02web.zoom.us/u/kuUW3yscL](https://us02web.zoom.us/u/kuUW3yscL)

# Agenda topics

## Register of attendance and introductions

We are recording attendance at meetings, so OpenHW Group can track membership in accordance with article 4 of the membership agreement. This matters particularly when email ballots are held, to ensure the voters represent member organizations who are active on the group. The attendance records are can be seen in the [program](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/tree/master/program) directory of the [core-v-docs repository](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs).

## Review of actions

- **Hugh Pollitt-Smith** to add fixing hardware issues found by software teams to next Hardware TG meeting.

- **Greg Martin** to review issues [#149](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-mcu/issues/149) and [#115](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-mcu/issues/115) raised by Robert Balas for the FreeRTOS project.

- **Jessica Mills** to discuss HAL tool chain issues with Yunhai Shang.

- **Olive Zhao** and **Yunhai Shang** to present comparative analsysis of the various HAL approaches against the requirements specified in the Project Concept document at the next meeting.

- **Wei Wu** to talk to **Jessica Mills** (GNU tool chain) and **Philipp Krones** (CV32E40P LLVM tool chain) about incorporating the PLCT work in the official CORE-V tool chain repositories.

- **Richard Barry** to make a central list of all the different hardware FreeRTOS must support. Initially via Mattermost, but can be committed to the [core-v-sw](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw) repository in the [projects/freertos](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/tree/master/projects/freertos) directory.

## Report back from TWG (5 minutes allocated)

## Reports from current projects (15 minutes allocated)

Active projects under the Software Task Group will have provided a written report in advance. We also have one project under the Hardware Task Group which also reports into us.

Each project leader is asked to present any key issues for which community input frm the meeting is required. They will also take any questions.

- CORE-V IDE - Alexander Fedorov
- CORE-V GNU Tools - Jessica Mills
- CORE-V FreeRTOS - Robert Balas and Shteryana Shopova
- CORE-V Clang/LLVM - Philipp Krones and Zbigniew Chamski

  - already advised that there is no change for CV32E40P Clang/LLVM

- Hardware Abstraction Layer - Yunhain Shang and Olive Zhao

  - to include comparative analysis of the various solutions

- CORE-V Verilator modeling (HW TG project) - Jeremy Bennett

## Draft Concept Proposal for the CORE-V MCU developer board SDK (20 minutes allocated)

A concept proposal for the CORE-V MCU SDK will be submitted to the next TWG
meeting on 27 September 2021.  The work is still in preparation, but the work so far will be presented at this meeting.

## New potential projects

If time permits we will start discussion on the following topics.

- Extension of existing projects to CV32E40X, CV32E40S, CV32E41P, CVA6 and CVE2

  - GNU tools and FreeRTOS are currently scoped for CV32E40P and need to be considered for CVA6 and CVE2.

## AOB

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets monthly at 07:00 Pacific Time on the second Monday of the month.

- 11 Oct 2021
- 08 Nov 2021
- 13 Dec 2021

Jeremy Bennett, Chair\
Yunhai Shang, Vice-Chair
