# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Minutes

Monday 13 September 2021, 14:00 UTC

## Attendees and welcome new members

See separate [attendance register](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/blob/master/program/TGSoftware_Attendance_2021.md)

There were no new members this month.

## Summary of actions

- **Anjali Gedam** to investigate current status of CVA6 Clang/LLVM with **Zbigniew Chamski**.

- **Olive Zhao** will provide a pull-request for her analysis (in the `core-v-sw` repository, `projects/hal` directory). This will then be used as the basis for ongoing review and discussion. If appropriate, she will convenene a separate meeting to review the analysis.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to commit the draft Concept Proposal for the SDK to the `core-v-sw` repository later this week, and then circulate for online review.

# Meeting topics

## Review of actions

- **Hugh Pollitt-Smith** to add fixing hardware issues found by software teams
  to next Hardware TG meeting.

  - Complete. Now have unified `core-v-mcu` repository, with `dev` and `main` branches.

- **Greg Martin** to review issues [#149](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-mcu/issues/149) and [#115](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-mcu/issues/115) raised by Robert Balas for the FreeRTOS project.

  - Held up by OpenOCD not working on latest version of RTL. Hugh Pollitt-Smith has it working with his configuration. Shteryana Shopova and Hugh Pollit-Smith to discuss to resolve this. Keeping open pending progress.

- **Jessica Mills** to discuss HAL tool chain issues with Yunhai Shang.

  - looked to be a FreeRTOS library issue, action transferred to **Shteryana Shopova**, **Robert Balas** and **Richard Barry**.

- **Olive Zhao** and **Yunhai Shang** to present comparative analsysis of the various HAL approaches against the requirements specified in the Project Concept document at the next meeting.

  - In progress, see agenda item [Hardware Abstraction Layer](#hardware-abstraction-layer) report.

- **Wei Wu** to talk to **Jessica Mills** (GNU tool chain) and **Philipp Krones** (CV32E40P LLVM tool chain) about incorporating the PLCT work in the official CORE-V tool chain repositories.

  - Complete. GNU work is still 3-4 weeks more work on the linker, not yet ready. Clang/LLVM work is also still working on the linker.

- **Richard Barry** to make a central list of all the different hardware FreeRTOS must support.

  - Complete. Done via Mattermost, but will be committed to the [core-v-sw](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw) repository in the [projects/freertos](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/tree/master/projects/freertos) directory.
  - Note that can run FreeRTOS on most RISC-V systems, but not CORE-V due to needing Vivado to load the bitstream on to the Nexys A7 board. Hugh Pollitt-Smith advised that the bitstream could instead be loaded from a SD-card.

## Report back from TWG

- Initial presentation on SDK (see also agenda item [Draft Concept Proposal for the CORE-V MCU developer board SDK](#draft-concept-proposal-for-the-core-v-mcu-developer-board-sdk)).

  - well received
  - question of delineating boundary with platform development kit
  - there is a weekly sync up meeting for MCU project at 13:00 Ottawa Time each Wednesday.

- CVA6 feature specification was reviewed.
- OpenHW member survey is coming soon.

## Reports from current projects

Active projects under the SW TG have provided a written report in advance.

### CORE-V IDE

See [report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/ide/2021/monthly-report-2021-09-13.md) by Alexander Fedorov in the Software TG repository.

- still working to set up licence-check hook on installation
- OK for core set up, hard for third party components to use.

### CORE-V GNU Tools

See [report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/gnu-tools/2021/monthly-report-2021-09-13.md) by Jessica Mills in the Software TG repository.

- all planned CORE-V support is now complete in binutils-gdb
- presenting work at GNU tools track of Linux Plumbers

### CORE-V FreeRTOS

See [report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/freertos/2021/monthly-report-13-sept-21.md) by Robert Balas and Shteryana Shopova in the Software TG repository.

- Minimal progress this month, due to other commitments.

### CORE-V Clang/LLVM

CV32E40P: No change this month.

CVA6: No report.

**Action:** Anjali Gedam to investigate current status of CVA6 Clang/LLVM with Zbigniew Chamski.

### Hardware Abstraction Layer

There is no written report this month, but Yunhai Shang presented a verbal report.

- initial comparison between solutions is complete (see below)
- also promoting T-Core CSI as the HAL solution in RISC-V international
- English version of CSI user guide has now been published

Olive Zhao presented her work in progress with Yunhai Shang, comparing 5 different HALs that could be used as the starting point for the HAL

- Arm CMSIS
- Alibaba T-Core CSI
- NMSIS
- SiFive Freedom Metal
- STM32Cube for Arm

In the discussion it was clarified that in looking at the potential to be a starting point for a CORE-V HAL, the functionality should be considered in its current context, since clearly Arm HALs cannot current support RISC-V. The assessment should be

- **No** - functionality not supported.
- **Yes** - functionaliy is supported and potentially  portable to CORE-V
- **Not portable** - functionality is supported, but would need to be completely reimplemented for CORE-V.

A separate factor in considering which to use as the starting point will be the engineering effort required, which will almost certainly be larger if taking an Arm based system as starting point.

**Action** Olive Zhao will provide a pull-request for her analysis (in the `core-v-sw` repository, `projects/hal` directory). This will then be used as the basis for ongoing review and discussion. If appropriate, she will convenene a separate meeting to review the analysis.

### CORE-V Verilator modeling (joint project with Hardware TG)

See [report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/blob/master/hw/projects/verilator-model/2021/20210913-swtg-report.md) by Jeremy Bennett in the CORE-V documents repository.

- has now tested that all access works for general status and register access, need to verify that memory access works correctly.
- resource limitation causes this to continue to run late.

## Draft Concept Proposal for the CORE-V MCU developer board SDK

Hugh O'Keefe presented key slides from his TWG presentation, leading to an initial discussion, which was curtailed by the meeting running out of time. The meeting agreed to continue discussion on the `TWG : SW : SDK` Mattermost channel.

It was noted that there is a weekly sync up meeting for the MCU project at 13:00 Ottawa Time each Wednesday, at which the SDK team should be represented.

**Action:** Jeremy Bennett to commit the draft Concept Proposal for the SDK to the `core-v-sw` repository later this week, and then circulate for online review.

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets monthly at 07:00 Pacific Time on the second Monday of the month.

- 11 Oct 2021
- 08 Nov 2021
- 13 Dec 2021

Jeremy Bennett, Chair\
Yunhai Shang, Vice-Chair
