# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Minutes

Monday 12 July 2021, 14:00 UTC

## Attendees and welcome new members

See separate [attendance register](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/blob/master/program/TGSoftware_Attendance_2021.md)

The following new member was welcomed.

- **Vaibhav Sarma** Thales, lead for filesystem encryption. Expertise in Linux kernel, and a bit of GCC.

- **Hugh O'Keeffe** Engieering lead at Ashling. Provide embedded software development tools.

## Summary of actions

- **Richard Barry** to make a central list of all the different hardware FreeRTOS must support. Initially via Mattermost, but can be committed to the [core-v-sw](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw) repository in the [projects/freertos](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/tree/master/projects/freertos) directory.

- **Robert Balas** and **Shteryana Shopova** to consider running separate monthly calls for all those interested in FreeRTOS to coordinate actions.

- **All** to consider leading the SDK project.

# Meeting topics

## Review of actions

**Jeremy Bennett** to remove Duncan Bees from PlatformIO project proposal updates as project concept is by Ivan Kravets.

- Complete. This project is currently on hold.

**Duncan Bees** and **Yunhai Shang** to upload presentation to mattermost and github for people to offer edits and opinions. Including added slides depicting differences between the HAL and SDK projects.

- Complete.

**Rick O'Connor** to get HW & SW TG's together to decide what the SDK will include.

- Conversation at last Hardware TG meeting, hardware group capturing wider development kit for the CORE-V MCU.  See agenda item [Requirements for the CORE-V MCU developer board SDK](#requirements-for-the-core-v-mcu-developer-board-sdk).

**Yunhai Shang** to lead finalizing the HAL Project Concept document via a PR on GitHub, for submission to the TWG on 28 June 2021.

- Complete. See agenda item [Report back from TWG](#report-back-from-twg).

## Report back from TWG

The following concept project proposals were all approved

- Hardware Abstraction Layer

  - Software TG project

- CV-X-IF Specification

  - the generic hardware interface for adding extensions

- CV32E41P

  - TRL3 evaluation of the Zce extension led by Huawei

- CV32E20

  - 2-stage very small core supporting RV32E

- CV32E40Pv2

  - updated version of CV32E40P with all PULP extensions other than SIMD and bitmanip verified and encoded with RISC-V compliant encodings.  Led by Dolphin Design.

New members Technion University, UCSB and SFU each presented their work.

## Reports from current projects

Active projects under the SW TG have provided a written report in advance.

### CORE-V IDE

See [report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/ide/2021/monthly-report-2021-07-12.md) by Alexander Fedorov in the Software TG repository.

- Focus on PlatformIO integration.
- Continue to ask for examples of applications to include
- Speaking at upcoming RISC-V forum

### CORE-V GNU Tools

See [report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/gnu-tools/2021/monthly-report-2021-07-12.md) by Jessica Mills in the Software TG repository.

- Can now run regression tests on the PULP simulator, GVSoC
- Have run CORE-V specific tests
- Need to merge remaining instructions into binutils, waiting on a rebase
- Work on fixing simulator failures
- Work on GCC

Comment Robert Balas has a CORE-V GDB simulator

### CORE-V FreeRTOS

See [report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/freertos/2021/monthly-report-12-july-21.md) by Robert Balas and Shteryana Shopova in the Software TG repository.

- made a few changes to configuration and compile time options, so can also target CVA6.
- formulated a plan to contribute upstream.

Richard Barry of AWS commented this it would be good to run under PULP simulator.

Richard Barry would also Would like to combine with support for different boards with vector updates, once the CORE-V version is upstream.

Zbigniew Chamski drew attention to CVA6 work at Thales India. Would like to get consistency on directory layout before upstreaming. Led by Anjali Gedam. Can run under RTL simulation, which could be useful for testing. Anjali asked questions abmout which repos she should be using. Goal is to have everything upstream.

**Action:** Richard Barry to make a central list of all the different hardware FreeRTOS must support. Initially via Mattermost.

**Action:** Robert Balas and Shteryana Shopova to consider running separate monthly calls for all those interested in FreeRTOS.

### CORE-V Clang/LLVM

See [report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/clang-llvm/2021/monthly-report-2021-07-12.md) by Zbigniew Chamski in the Software TG repository.

CV32E40P: No change this month.

CVA6:
- Scripted builds now supported alongside GCC. Supports versions with GNU ld and LLVM LLD.
- Fix to assembly level support of signalling NaN floating point in RISC-V assembly.
- Align CI/CD with CVA6 reorganization.
  - GCC and both LLVM variants both agree on test results for CVA6
- This month
  - finalize transition to new reorg
  - fix any test issues
  - do benchmarking.

### Hardware Abstraction Layer

See [report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/hal/2021/monthly-report-2021-07-12.md) by Yunhai Shang in the Software TG repository.

- Concept Phase approved.
- Comparison of options for HAL now on Mattermost
  - comments are encouraged
- Will start on minimal demo to develop

### CORE-V Verilator modeling (joint project with Hardware TG)

See [report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/blob/master/hw/projects/verilator-model/2021/20210712-report.md) by Jeremy Bennett in the Harware TG repository.

- More complexity than expected in modeling the JTAG interface, leading to a 1 month delay in milestones
- Software can now read and write DTM registers, although some behavior is not as expected.

## Requirements for the CORE-V MCU developer board SDK

Hardware TG is defining requirements for development kit for MCU. SDK will be part of this, but should be general enough to be used for other hardware (hence the HAL project).

Thoughts from Hugh O'Keeffe at Ashling (which develops SDKs)
- key is out-of-box experience
- want example programs you can run
  - some even without compiling
- start with toggling LEDs
- need IDE, compilers, libraries, examples, including exercising peripherals
- can work at just bare metal level, or might want to include RTOS as well.
- FPGA adds to scope of project
  - need for HW design tools to use that?
  - plan is to use Symbiflow (open source) to support that.

Thoughts from Tim Saxe at Quicklogic (first potential SDK user for MCU project)
- agrees top level application piece is the most important part of SDK
  - makes it the packaged thing.

Thoughts from Rick O'Connor
- we are going to have a physical SoC
- can build up to 10,000 development kits (can't buy the SoC).
- FreeRTOS will be important
- the SoC includes an embedded FPGA from QuickLogic
- aim to tape out in September, silicon in new year
- opportunity to plan SDK now in parallel.

**Action:** All to consider leading the SDK project.

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets monthly at 07:00 Pacific Time on the second Monday of the month.

- 09 Aug 2021
- 13 Sep 2021
- 11 Oct 2021
- 08 Nov 2021
- 13 Dec 2021

Jeremy Bennett, Chair\
Yunhai Shang, Vice-Chair
