# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Minutes

Monday 12 April 2021, 15:00 UTC

## Attendees and welcome new members

See separate [attendance register](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/blob/master/program/TGSoftware_Attendance_2021.md)

The following new members were welcomed.

## Summary of actions

**Jeremy Bennett** & **Duncan Bees** to review all software projects to determine what steps are needed to advance to Project Launch stage.

**Duncan Bees** to circulate PlatformIO concept proposal on Software TG mailing list in advance of the TWG meeting for comment.

**Yunhai Shang** and his team to produce a literature survey of available options for the meeting on 10 May 2021, with a view to a full concept proposal the following month.

# Meeting topics

## Review of actions

- **Jeremy Bennett** & **Duncan Bees** to review all software projects to determine what steps are needed to advance to Project Launch stage.

  - not progressed, carried forward.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to coordinate with group leaders to prepare their presentations for OpenHW Day.

  - Complete. OpenHW Day successfully delivered.

- **Rick O'Connor** to look at legal aspects of building on CMSIS to determine our "freedom of action" - how and what can we do

  - Complete. Arm CMSIS is Apache licensed.

- **All** to consider if they could lead a group of technical experts to develop our plans for HAL.

  - Complete. Yunhai Shang has stepped forward to lead this project. See agenda item [Hardware abstraction layer](#hardware-abstraction-layer).

## Report back from TWG

Key output was approval of CV32E40X and CV32E40S.

Upcoming meeting gate review on MCU and possibly PlatformIO.

## Reports from current projects

All active projects under the SW TG have provided a written report in advance.

### CORE-V IDE

See [report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/ide/2021/monthly-report-2021-04-12.md) by Alexander Fedorov in repository.

Alexander presented the work showing Eclipse IDE importing the PlatformIO environment.

### CORE-V GNU Tools

See [report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/gnu-tools/2021/monthly-report-2021-04-09.md) by Jessica Mills in repository.

### CORE-V FreeRTOS

See [report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/freertos/2021/monthly-report-12-april-21.md) by Shteryana Shopova and Robert Balas in repository.

Little progress on CORE-V kernel port. Have seen some hardware changes, but still ongoing. Waiting on new bitstream, so can make software adjustments.

Hugh Pollitt-Smith reported on update to MCU restructure, which should make this easier. Plan to have nightly bitstreams for download.

### CORE-V Clang/LLVM

See [report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/clang-llvm/2021/monthly-report-2021-04-12.md) by Philipp Krones and Zbigniew Chamski in repository.

Philipp Krones reported on the CV32E40P LLVM, little going on apart from ongoing port of work from the University of Tübingen.  Looking to add pre-compiled binary downloads soon.

Zbigniew Chamski reported on the approach to CVA6 extensions.  Current view start with baseline RV32GC and RV64GC.  Working on review of bugs in LLVM 10 and LLVM 11.  Started using Linux with GCC 10.2 as validation for 32-bit and 64-bit with Ariane SDK.  Want to achieve same results with LLVM.  Motiviation is V extension support in LLVM.

### Verilator modeling (Hardware Task Group project)

This project also reports to Software Task Group because of our interest in cycle accurate modeling for software.

In the absence of Afredo Herrera, there was no official report. However Florian Zaruba, reported they can now build an entire Verilator model, opening up the opportunity for debug server integration for software use. Florian is working with the hardware team to deal with one small issue.

## OpenHW TV: 1 April 2021

The Software TG will be the center of the next OpenHW TV episode.  This will allow us to reuse the work from OpenHW Day.  We are planning three 10 minute segments, followed by the usual Q&A

- **GCC & LLVM** - Jessica Mills and Philipp Krones
- **FreeRTOS** - Shteryana Shopova and Robert Balas
- **IDEs** - Alexander Fedorov and Ivan Kravets

The OpenHW Day Mattmermost channel has been renamed and repurposed to coordinate the work.

## PlatformIO project proposal

Duncan Bees and Ivan Kravets presented their work on formalizing the project (although it has already made significant progress).

Basic integration with CV32E40P has been done.  Currently in platformIO organization on GitHub, will move into the OpenHW organization.
- want to have a user guide for people using PlatformIO with the FPGA MCU.
- want some trial users to validate use cases

Have worked with Alexander Fedorov, who has integrated PlaformIO into Eclipse.  Currently using PULP SDK v1, but want to replace by HAL.  Can use NexysA7 board, OVPSim or Antmicro Renode.  For FPGA boards can upload bitstream.

Aim to submit Concept Proposal to next TWG.

**Action:** Duncan Bees to circulate PlatformIO concept proposal on Software TG mailing list in advance of the TWG meeting for comment.

## Hardware abstraction layer

Yunhai Shang reported on initial ideas.  Their initial propsoal is to use the RISC-V Microcontroller Software Interface Standard (Arm CMSIS ported to RISC-V).  The team want to follow RISC-V International Standardization.

Simon Davidmann drew attention to the [NMSIS proposal](https://github.com/Nuclei-Software/NMSIS).  He also noted the support for this from Andes Technology and others, and the [latest update](https://lists.riscv.org/g/tech-p-ext/message/99) in the RISC-V International P extension task group

General agreement we need a literature survey to see what is already available.

- we don't want to reinvent the wheel.
- suggested to talk to Yunsup Lee, Chair of the RISC-V Technical Steering Group for an overview.

Others had looked at OpenTitan, but this is tied into a particular methodology.

**Action:** Yunhai Shang and his team to produce a literature survey of available options for the meeting on 10 May 2021, with a view to a full concept proposal the following month.

## New potential projects

There was no time to discuss the following projects, which will be scheduled for future meetings.

- Extension of existing projects to CVA6 and CVE2
- Linux support

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets monthly at 07:00 Pacific Time on the second Monday of the month.

- 10 May 2021
- 14 Jun 2021
- 12 Jul 2021
- 09 Aug 2021
- 13 Sep 2021
- 11 Oct 2021
- 08 Nov 2021
- 13 Dec 2021

Jeremy Bennett, Chair\
Yunhai Shang, Vice-Chair
