# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Agenda

Monday 08 March 2021

- 07:00-08:00 Pacific Time
- 10:00-11:00 East Coast Time
- 15:00-16:00 UTC
- 15:00-16:00 UK Time
- 16:00-17:00 Central European Time
- 23:00-24:00 Beijing Time

## Location

Zoom meeting

- [us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761)
- Meeting ID: 851 9441 6761
- Find your local number: [us02web.zoom.us/u/kcVlqVA9vi](https://us02web.zoom.us/u/kcVlqVA9vi)

# Agenda topics

## Register of attendance and introductions

We are recording attendance at meetings, so OpenHW Group can track membership in accordance with article 4 of the membership agreement. This matters particularly when email ballots are held, to ensure the voters represent member organizations who are active on the group. The attendance records are can be seen in the [program](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/tree/master/program) directory of the [core-v-docs repository](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs).

## Review of actions

- **Florian Zaruba** to reach out 1:1 to OpenHW Group members to see if anoyone would like to contribute/lead a project to develop a Hardware Abstraction Layer (both for software and hardware use).

  - see agenda item [Hardware abstraction layer](#hardware-abstraction-layer).

- **Ivan Kravets** and **Duncan Bees** to liaise about creating a prelminary project proposal for a CORE-V PlatformIO project.

  - see agenda item [PlatformIO project proposal](#platformio-project-proposal).

- **Alexander Fedorov** and **Simon Davidmann** to discuss most appropriate approach to licensing OVPSim for the IDE, involving **Rick O'Connor** as appropriate.

  - Alexander Fedorov and Simon Davidmann to report back.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to schedule final discussion on platforms and core models for software engineers for the meeting on 8 March 2021.

  - see agenda item [Platform and core models for software engineers](#platform-and-core-models-for-software-engineers).

## Report back from TWG (5 minutes allocated)

Report by the chair and Duncan Bees.

- software models

## Reports from current projects (15 minutes allocated)

Active projects under the Software Task Group will have provided a written report in advance. We also have one project under the Hardware Task Group which also reports into us.

Each project leader is asked to present any key issues for which community input frm the meeting is required. They will also take any questions.

- CORE-V IDE - Alexander Fedorov
- CORE-V GNU Tools - Jessica Mills
- CORE-V FreeRTOS - Robert Balas and Shteryana Shopova
- CORE-V Clang/LLVM - Philipp Krones and Andr√© Szintoff
- CORE-V Verilator modeling (HW TG project) - Alfredo Herrera

## OpenHW Day: 1 April 2021 (10 minutes allocated)

OpenHW day is part of Paris RISC-V week. We have 90 minutes to showcase the work of the Software Task Group from 11:00-12:30 CET on Thursday 1 April. The focus is on demoing rather than just talking. As a starting point for discussion, I'd like to suggest the following program:

- 11:00 GCC & LLVM
- 11:15 FreeRTOS
- 11:30 IDEs (Eclipse & PlatformIO)
- 11:45 Software simulation models (Verilator and OVPSim)
- 12:00 Future projects
- 12:15 Q&A

I hope project leads will be able to demo there work. I appreciate some projects are at an early stage. I also appreciate that for some it will be quite early in the morning!

## Platform and core models for software engineers (10 minutes allocated)

(continuation of last month's agenda item)

Within the remit of the Software TG is provision of models for use by software engineers.  Last month we agreed to support the Verilator modeling project for software engineers requiring a cycle accurate model.

This month we wish to resolve the solution for our remaining software modeling needs.  We started discussing a proposal to use OVPSim from Imperas for all these needs. This agenda item is to bring that discussion to a conclusion.

## PlatformIO project proposal (5 minutes allocated)

We have a preliminary project proposal in preparation by Ivan Kravets.  In the first instance this will be a standalone PlatformIO implementation for CORE-V, but the long term objective is to integrate with the Eclipse CDT work of our existing IDE project.

Ivan will present progress so far on preparing this proposal.

## Hardware abstraction layer (10 minutes allocated)

This is becoming a major issue across the RISC-V ecosystem (not just CORE-V).  It is already an issue for our FreeRTOS, IDE and proposed PlatformIO projects.  We have an opportunity to provide leadership beyond just the OpenHW Group by tackling this issue.

The project can be summarized as "provide an equivalent of Arm [CMSIS](https://developer.arm.com/tools-and-software/embedded/cmsis) for CORE-V"

* a specification of the standard
* an initial implementation for CV32E40P FPGA-MCU
* implementations for other CORE-V platforms.
* migration of existing CORE-V projects to use the HAL

Developing HALs is really, really hard!  It requires broad experience of embedded platforms and operating systems.

This meeting will provide an opportunity for initial discussion.  But the critical step will be for an OpenHW Group member to step forward to lead this work, and for other members to commit to support the effort.

This is not just a Software Task Group issue, and it will be considered by other groups. However we are the group who will feel the pain soonest!

## New potential projects

We are unlikely to have time with the meeting for detailed discussion of these areas, which will be the topics for future meetings, and are placed here for the record.

- Linux

  - with the development of the CVA6 architecture, particularly its 64-bit version, this will become an urgent priority.

- Extension of existing projects to CVA6 and CVE2

  - GNU tools and FreeRTOS are currently scoped for CV32E40P and need to be considered for CVA6 and CVE2.

## AOB

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets monthly at 07:00 Pacific Time on the second Monday of the month.

- 12 Apr 2021
- 10 May 2021
- 14 Jun 2021
- 12 Jul 2021
- 09 Aug 2021
- 13 Sep 2021
- 11 Oct 2021
- 08 Nov 2021
- 13 Dec 2021

Jeremy Bennett, Chair\
Yunhai Shang, Vice-Chair
