# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Minutes

Monday 11 January 2021, 15:00 UTC

## Attendees

See separate [attendance register](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/blob/master/program/TGSoftware_Attendance_2021.md)

## Summary of actions

- **Florian Zaruba** to reach out 1:1 to OpenHW Group members to see if anoyone would like to contribute/lead a project to develop a Hardware Abstraction Layer (both for software and hardware use).

- **Ivan Kravets and Duncan Bees** to liaise about creating a prelminary project proposal for a CORE-V PlatformIO project.

- **Simon Davidmann, Alexander Fedorov and Ivan Kravets** to work out how OVPSim for CORE-V can be included within Eclispse CDE and PlatformIO.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to schedule time for a fuller discussion of models for use by software engineers at the next meeting.

# Meeting topics

## Review of actions

- **Duncan Bees/Florian Zaruba** to convene a tutorial 1 hour meeting on practical use of CI&T.

	- Not yet started.

- **Mike Thompson** to convene meeting for those interested in pure software platform models.

	- Initial discussion held as part of TWG. Follow on meeting to be scheduled.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to schedule time for a fuller discussion of a Hardware Abstraction Layer at the next meeting.

    - see agenda item [New potential projects](#new-potential-projects).

## Report back from TWG

The Chair and Duncan Bees reported back.

- models are needed for use by the software engineers, specifically in IDE.  See agenda item [Models for use by software engineers](#models-for-use-by-software-engineers)

## Reports from current projects

### CORE-V IDE

Alexander Fedorov presented his report.

- need to get access to real hardware to set up environments
- in discussion with Tim Saxe about setting up an IDE for the Quicklogic CORE-V project

### CORE-V GNU Tools

Jessica Mills presented her [monthly
report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/gnu-tools/2020/monthly-report-2021-01-10.md).

- noted that Embecosm effort is winding down, University of Bologna continues, but we still need around 5-6 months GCC expertise to complete the project.
- FSF agreement for University of Bologna is being driven by Giuseppe Tagliavini.

### CORE-V FreeRTOS

Shteryana Shopova presented her and Robert Balas's [monthly report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/freertos/2021/monthly-report-11-jan-21.md)

- Tim Saxe has also tested the FreeRTOS port independently. Both hit into problems with memory access and identified a bug in RTL. Now have a new bitstream, which works with bare metal "Hello World" application.
- Currently working on configuring timer interrupts, but not yet working.
- Needs help from someone with full Vivado license to generate bitstreams

  - prebuilt bitstreams are very useful for the software team.

- Robert Balas is cleaning up FreeRTOS code for CORE-V to remove PULP specific functionality.

### CORE-V Clang/LLVM

Philipp Krones presented his and Andr√© Szintoff's [monthly report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/clang-llvm/monthly-report-2021-01-11.md)

- Philipp now moving to new projects, will complete his current pull requests. Needs to find a reviewer with LLVM expertise.

## New potential projects

### Hardware Abstraction Layer

Florian Zaruba introduced the concept of a hardware abstraction layer (HAL).  Possibly something like [Arm CMSIS](https://developer.arm.com/tools-and-software/embedded/cmsis) or [SiFive Freedom Metal](https://github.com/sifive/freedom-metal).  Something we can develop applications against and then run on different core and system incarnations.

Questions/Comments

- Bare metal BSP. Should we be using the same BSP in verification as in real distribution.

- Need to separate out a hardware abstraction layer from any "monitor", which may be part of the testing of the HAL.

- Different meanings of HAL in different worlds. Hardware engineers use it to mean a standardized way of handling I/O registers.

**Action:** Florian Zaruba to reach out 1:1 to OpenHW Group members to see if anoyone would like to contribute/lead a project to develop a Hardware Abstraction Layer (both for software and hardware use).

### PlatformIO for CORE-V

Ivan Kravets and Valerii Koval demonstrated PlatformIO for CORE-V. Rick O'Conner reported that he had brought up the system over Christmas.

**Action:** Ivan Kravets and Duncan Bees to liaise about creating a prelminary project proposal for a CORE-V PlatformIO project.

### Models for use by software engineers

This will be discussed in detail at the next meeting.

Simon Davidmann gave a brief summary of the Imperas OVPSim models and how they could be integrated with the IDE.

**Action:** Simon Davidmann, Alexander Fedorov and Ivan Kravets to work out how OVPSim for CORE-V can be included within Eclispse CDE and PlatformIO.

**Action:** Jeremy Bennett to schedule time for a fuller discussion of models for use by software engineers at the next meeting.

### Linux for CORE-V

Deferred to a later meeting.

### Extending existing projects to CVA6 and CVE2

Deferred to a later meeting.

## AOB

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets monthly at 07:00 Pacific Time on the second Monday of the month.

- 08 Feb 2020
- 08 Mar 2020
- 12 Apr 2020
- 10 May 2020
- 14 Jun 2020
- 12 Jul 2020
- 09 Aug 2020
- 13 Sep 2020
- 11 Oct 2020
- 08 Nov 2020
- 13 Dec 2020

Jeremy Bennett, Chair\
Yunhai Shang, Vice-Chair
