# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Agenda

Monday 9 August 2021

- 07:00-08:00 Pacific Time
- 10:00-11:00 East Coast Time
- 14:00-15:00 UTC
- 15:00-16:00 UK Time
- 16:00-17:00 Central European Time
- 22:00-23:00 Beijing Time

## Location

Zoom meeting.

- [us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761?pwd=M2kwRzNCUG82UFlJT0NMbnJPSXBCZz09](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761?pwd=M2kwRzNCUG82UFlJT0NMbnJPSXBCZz09)
- Meeting ID: 851 9441 6761
- Find your local number: [us02web.zoom.us/u/kuUW3yscL](https://us02web.zoom.us/u/kuUW3yscL)

# Agenda topics

## Register of attendance and introductions

We are recording attendance at meetings, so OpenHW Group can track membership in accordance with article 4 of the membership agreement. This matters particularly when email ballots are held, to ensure the voters represent member organizations who are active on the group. The attendance records are can be seen in the [program](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/tree/master/program) directory of the [core-v-docs repository](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs).

## Review of actions

- **Richard Barry** to make a central list of all the different hardware FreeRTOS must support. Initially via Mattermost, but can be committed to the [core-v-sw](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw) repository in the [projects/freertos](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/tree/master/projects/freertos) directory.

- **Robert Balas** and **Shteryana Shopova** to consider running separate monthly calls for all those interested in FreeRTOS to coordinate actions.

- **All** to consider leading the SDK project.

## Report back from TWG (5 minutes allocated)

Covering the following items:

- Taiga processor core project concept (Simon Fraser University); and
- project framework linking

## Reports from current projects (15 minutes allocated)

Active projects under the Software Task Group will have provided a written report in advance. We also have one project under the Hardware Task Group which also reports into us.

Each project leader is asked to present any key issues for which community input frm the meeting is required. They will also take any questions.

- CORE-V IDE - Alexander Fedorov
- CORE-V GNU Tools - Jessica Mills
- CORE-V FreeRTOS - Robert Balas and Shteryana Shopova
- CORE-V Clang/LLVM - Philipp Krones and Zbigniew Chamski

  - already advised that there is no change for CV32E40P Clang/LLVM

- Hardware Abstraction Layer - Yunhain Shang and Olive Zhao

  - to include a short demo of CSI on the Genesys2 board

- CORE-V Verilator modeling (HW TG project) - Jeremy Bennett

## Tool chain support for CV32E41P (15 minutes allocated)

This is the TRL3 demonstrator for the Zce extension being developed by Huawei.  We shall be joined by Wei Wu from the Chinese Academy of Sciences whose team is leading development of the GNU and Clang/LLVM tool chains.

We shall need a route to incorporate these as part of the OpenHW Group tool chain development projects.

## Requirements for the CORE-V MCU developer board SDK (15 minutes allocated)

Pending appointment of a project lead, we will spend a short time fleshing out the requirements for this project.

We are planning to build up to 10,000 development kits, of which the SDK will be a key part.  To date we have established the following key features and points of note.

- The SDK is central to a positive "out-of-the-box" experience for end users.
- The SDK needs to include IDE, compilers, libraries and examples.
- The SDK must include example programs that can run immediately and then be modified.

  - start with toggling LEDs
  - must have examples to exercise all peripherals

- FreeRTOS will be important, so the SDK must support this as well as bare metal.
- The board will include a user programmable FPGA, which adds to the scope of project.  The plan is to use Symbiflow (open source) HW design tools to support this.

Key dates:

- September 2021: Tapeout
- January 2022: First silicon available
- ???: First boards available
- ???: Product launch and ship

## New potential projects

If time permits we will start discussion on the following topics.

- Extension of existing projects to CV32E40X, CV32E40S, CV32E41P, CVA6 and CVE2

  - GNU tools and FreeRTOS are currently scoped for CV32E40P and need to be considered for CVA6 and CVE2.

## AOB

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets monthly at 07:00 Pacific Time on the second Monday of the month.

- 13 Sep 2021
- 11 Oct 2021
- 08 Nov 2021
- 13 Dec 2021

Jeremy Bennett, Chair\
Yunhai Shang, Vice-Chair
