# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Agenda

Monday 08 February 2021

- 07:00-08:00 Pacific Time
- 10:00-11:00 East Coast Time
- 15:00-16:00 UTC
- 15:00-16:00 UK Time
- 16:00-17:00 Central European Time
- 23:00-24:00 Beijing Time

## Location

Zoom meeting

- [us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761)
- Meeting ID: 851 9441 6761
- Find your local number: [us02web.zoom.us/u/kcVlqVA9vi](https://us02web.zoom.us/u/kcVlqVA9vi)

# Agenda topics

## Register of attendance and introductions

We are recording attendance at meetings, so OpenHW Group can track membership in accordance with article 4 of the membership agreement. This matters particularly when email ballots are held, to ensure the voters represent member organizations who are active on the group. The attendance records are can be seen in the [program](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/tree/master/program) directory of the [core-v-docs repository](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs).

## Review of actions

- **Florian Zaruba** to reach out 1:1 to OpenHW Group members to see if anoyone would like to contribute/lead a project to develop a Hardware Abstraction Layer (both for software and hardware use).

  - Florian to report back

- **Ivan Kravets and Duncan Bees** to liaise about creating a prelminary project proposal for a CORE-V PlatformIO project.

  - Ivan/Duncan to report back

- **Simon Davidmann, Alexander Fedorov and Ivan Kravets** to work out how OVPSim for CORE-V can be included within Eclispse CDE and PlatformIO.

  - Simon/Alexander/Ivan to report

- **Jeremy Bennett** to schedule time for a fuller discussion of models for use by software engineers at the next meeting.

  - Complete - see agenda item [Platform and core models for software engineers](#platform-and-core-models-for-software-engineers)

## Report back from TWG

Report by the chair and Duncan Bees (5 minutes allocated).

- software models

## Reports from current projects

For efficiency, I have asked active projects under the SW TG to provide a written report in advance. Each project is invited to give a 3 minute status report highlighting the most important issues in their reports.

- CORE-V IDE - Alexander Fedorov
- CORE-V GNU Tools - Jessica Mills
- CORE-V FreeRTOS - Robert Balas and Shteryana Shopova
- CORE-V Clang/LLVM - Philipp Krones and André Szintoff

##  Eclipse SIG for embedded software tool developers

Brian King from the Eclipse Foundation will present news of this initiative (5 minutes allocated).

## Platform and core models for software engineers

Within the remit of the Software TG is provision of models for use by software engineers.  This discussion will be informed by

- OVPSim from Imperas
- the proposed Verilator SoC modeling project, led by Alfredo Herreira

I have asked Alfredo and Simon Davidmann (Founder of Imperas) to give a brief presentation of their work/products.

There has been some earlier discussion of this potential area, and I provide some briefing notes below.

The objective for the meeting is an outline of a project or projects, which can be developed into preliminary project proposals.

### Drivers for this project

There are a number of drivers for this

- **User experience.** The ability to try out CORE-V from a download without hardware.

- **Availability.** The ability to work on CORE-V where hardware is not available (embargoed or still in development)

- **Mass software development.** Equipping every engineer with hardware is expensive both financially and in the time of helping software engineers handle real hardware.

- **Software testing.** CD/CI&T is often much simpler using software models rather than physical hardware.

### Types of model

There are various ways of categorizing models used by software engineers.  Software models may model just the processor core, or the complete system and typically are a trade off between model performance  and timing accuracy.

- **Compiling software emulation.** Examples QEMU, Renode, OVPSim. Typically model the entire system, run at 10-500MHz, but offer limited timing accuracy.

- **Instruction Set Simulators.** Examples include CGEN/TableGen and hand-written ISS. Model only the processor core and typically run at 100kHz-10MHz, instruction count, but not cycle accurate.

- **Cycle accurate models.** Examples include GHDL/Verilator and hand-written models. Can model either the processor or the complete system, typically run at 10kHz - 1MHz offering cycle accuracy.

- **Event driven simulation.** Examples include Xcellium, VCS, Questa and Icarus Verilog. Typically model the entire system and run at 100Hz-10kHz with 4-state logic and intra-cycle timing.

- **Hybrid models.** A combination of techniques, typically a very fast model of the processor and more accurate models of peripherals.

## New potential projects

We are unlikely to have time with the meeting for detailed discussion of these areas, which will be the topics for future meetings, and are placed here for the record.

- Linux

  - with the development of the CVA6 architecture, particularly its 64-bit version, this will become an urgent priority.

- Extension of existing projects to CVA6 and CVE2

  - GNU tools and FreeRTOS are currently scoped for CV32E40P and need to be considered for CVA6 and CVE2.

## AOB

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets monthly at 07:00 Pacific Time on the second Monday of the month.

- 08 Mar 2021
- 12 Apr 2021
- 10 May 2021
- 14 Jun 2021
- 12 Jul 2021
- 09 Aug 2021
- 13 Sep 2021
- 11 Oct 2021
- 08 Nov 2021
- 13 Dec 2021

Jeremy Bennett, Chair\
Yunhai Shang, Vice-Chair
