# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Agenda

Monday 11 October 2021

- 07:00-08:00 Pacific Time
- 10:00-11:00 East Coast Time
- 14:00-15:00 UTC
- 15:00-16:00 UK Time
- 16:00-17:00 Central European Time
- 22:00-23:00 Beijing Time

## Location

Zoom meeting.

- [us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761?pwd=M2kwRzNCUG82UFlJT0NMbnJPSXBCZz09](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761?pwd=M2kwRzNCUG82UFlJT0NMbnJPSXBCZz09)
- Meeting ID: 851 9441 6761
- Find your local number: [us02web.zoom.us/u/kuUW3yscL](https://us02web.zoom.us/u/kuUW3yscL)

# Agenda topics

## Register of attendance and introductions

We are recording attendance at meetings, so OpenHW Group can track membership in accordance with article 4 of the membership agreement. This matters particularly when email ballots are held, to ensure the voters represent member organizations who are active on the group. The attendance records are can be seen in the [program](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/tree/master/program) directory of the [core-v-docs repository](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs).

## Review of actions

- **Anjali Gedam** to investigate current status of CVA6 Clang/LLVM with **Zbigniew Chamski**.

  - Complete. Zbigniew was diverted to other projects, but is now back.

- **Olive Zhao** will provide a pull-request for her analysis (in the `core-v-sw` repository, `projects/hal` directory). This will then be used as the basis for ongoing review and discussion. If appropriate, she will convenene a separate meeting to review the analysis.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to commit the draft Concept Proposal for the SDK to the `core-v-sw` repository later this week, and then circulate for online review.

  - Complete.

- **Greg Martin** to review issues [#149](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-mcu/issues/149) and [#115](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-mcu/issues/115) raised by Robert Balas for the FreeRTOS project.

  - Action held open pending confirmation of resolution.

## Report back from TWG (5 minutes allocated)

## Reports from current projects (15 minutes allocated)

Active projects under the Software Task Group will have provided a written report in advance. We also have one project under the Hardware Task Group which also reports into us.

Each project leader is asked to present any key issues for which community input frm the meeting is required. They will also take any questions.

- CORE-V IDE - Alexander Fedorov
- CORE-V GNU Tools - Jessica Mills
- CORE-V FreeRTOS - Robert Balas and Shteryana Shopova
- CORE-V Clang/LLVM - Philipp Krones and Zbigniew Chamski
- Hardware Abstraction Layer - Yunhain Shang and Olive Zhao
- Software Development Kit - Hugh O'Keefe
- CORE-V Verilator modeling (HW TG project) - Jeremy Bennett

## Progress to Project Launch for the HAL project

The project lead, Yunhai Shang, is unable to join us for this meeting, but I'll leave this item on the agenda for anyone to share progress.

## Resourcing the SDK project

Now the project concept has been approved, we need to resource this project. Several OpenHW Group members have committed to provide resource. Specifically we need a full-time project manager and around four experienced tool chain and training/documentation engineers.

## New potential projects

If time permits we will start discussion on the following topics.

- Extension of existing projects to CV32E40X, CV32E40S, CV32E41P, CVA6 and CVE2

  - GNU tools and FreeRTOS are currently scoped for CV32E40P and need to be considered for CVA6 and CVE2.

## AOB

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets monthly at 07:00 Pacific Time on the second Monday of the month.

- 08 Nov 2021
- 13 Dec 2021
- 10 Jan 2022
- 14 Feb 2022
- 14 Mar 2022
- 11 Apr 2022
- 9 May 2022
- 13 Jun 2022


Jeremy Bennett, Chair\
Yunhai Shang, Vice-Chair
