# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Agenda

Monday 12 July 2021

- 07:00-08:00 Pacific Time
- 10:00-11:00 East Coast Time
- 14:00-15:00 UTC
- 15:00-16:00 UK Time
- 16:00-17:00 Central European Time
- 22:00-23:00 Beijing Time

## Location

Zoom meeting. **Note.** New link, getting rid of the waiting room.

- [us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761?pwd=M2kwRzNCUG82UFlJT0NMbnJPSXBCZz09](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761?pwd=M2kwRzNCUG82UFlJT0NMbnJPSXBCZz09)
- Meeting ID: 851 9441 6761
- Find your local number: [us02web.zoom.us/u/kuUW3yscL](https://us02web.zoom.us/u/kuUW3yscL)

# Agenda topics

## Register of attendance and introductions

We are recording attendance at meetings, so OpenHW Group can track membership in accordance with article 4 of the membership agreement. This matters particularly when email ballots are held, to ensure the voters represent member organizations who are active on the group. The attendance records are can be seen in the [program](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/tree/master/program) directory of the [core-v-docs repository](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs).

## Review of actions

**Jeremy Bennett** to remove Duncan Bees from PlatformIO project proposal updates as project concept is by Ivan Kravets.

- this project is currently on hold.

**Duncan Bees** and **Yunhai Shang** to upload presentation to mattermost and github for people to offer edits and opinions. Including added slides depicting differences between the HAL and SDK projects.

**Rick O'Connor** to get HW & SW TG's together to decide what the SDK will include.

**Yunhai Shang** to lead finalizing the HAL Project Concept document via a PR on GitHub, for submission to the TWG on 28 June 2021.

- Complete. See agenda item [Report back from TWG](#report-back-from-twg-5-minutes-allocated)

## Report back from TWG (5 minutes allocated)

The following concept project proposals were all approved
- Hardware Abstraction Layer
- CV-X-IF Specification
- CV32E41P
- CV32E20
- CV32E40Pv2

New members Technion University, UCSB and SFU each presented their work.

## Reports from current projects (15 minutes allocated)

Active projects under the Software Task Group will have provided a written report in advance. We also have one project under the Hardware Task Group which also reports into us.

Each project leader is asked to present any key issues for which community input frm the meeting is required. They will also take any questions.

- CORE-V IDE - Alexander Fedorov
- CORE-V GNU Tools - Jessica Mills
- CORE-V FreeRTOS - Robert Balas and Shteryana Shopova
- CORE-V Clang/LLVM - Philipp Krones and Zbigniew Chamski
- Hardware Abstraction Layer - Yunhain Shang
- CORE-V Verilator modeling (HW TG project) - Jeremy Bennett

## Requirements for the CORE-V MCU developer board SDK (15 minutes allocated)

A follow-up to last month's discussion, asking what does the SDK include.

## New potential projects

If time permits we will start discussion on the following topics.

- Extension of existing projects to CV32E40X, CV32E40S, CV32E41P, CVA6 and CVE2

  - GNU tools and FreeRTOS are currently scoped for CV32E40P and need to be considered for CVA6 and CVE2.

## AOB

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets monthly at 07:00 Pacific Time on the second Monday of the month.

- 09 Aug 2021
- 13 Sep 2021
- 11 Oct 2021
- 08 Nov 2021
- 13 Dec 2021

Jeremy Bennett, Chair\
Yunhai Shang, Vice-Chair
