# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Agenda

Monday 11 January 2021

- 07:00-08:00 Pacific Time
- 10:00-11:00 East Coast Time
- 15:00-16:00 UTC
- 15:00-16:00 UK Time
- 16:00-17:00 Central European Time
- 23:00-24:00 Beijing Time

## Location

Zoom meeting

- [us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761)
- Meeting ID: 851 9441 6761
- Find your local number: [us02web.zoom.us/u/kcVlqVA9vi](https://us02web.zoom.us/u/kcVlqVA9vi)

# Agenda topics

## Register of attendance and introductions

We are recording attendance at meetings, so OpenHW Group can track membership in accordance with article 4 of the membership agreement. This matters particularly when email ballots are held, to ensure the voters represent member organizations who are active on the group. The attendance records are can be seen in the [program](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/tree/master/program) directory of the [core-v-docs repository](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs).

## Review of actions

- **Duncan Bees/Florian Zaruba** to convene a tutorial 1 hour meeting on practical use of CI&T.

	- Duncan & Florian to report.

- **Mike Thompson** to convene meeting for those interested in pure software platform models.

	- Complete - discussion held as part of TWG.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to schedule time for a fuller discussion of a Hardware Abstraction Layer at the next meeting.

    - see agenda item [New potential projects](#new-potential-projects).

## Report back from TWG

Report by the chair and Duncan Bees (5 minutes allocated).

- software models

## Reports from current projects

For efficiency, I have asked active projects under the SW TG to provide a written report in advance. Each project is invited to give a 3 minute status report highlighting the most important issues in their reports.

- CORE-V IDE - Alexander Fedorov
- CORE-V GNU Tools - Jessica Mills
- CORE-V FreeRTOS - Robert Balas and Shteryana Shopova
- CORE-V Clang/LLVM - Philipp Krones and Andr√© Szintoff

## New potential projects

5-10 minutes per project.

- Hardware Abstraction Layer (HAL)

  - discussion to be led by Florian Zaruba (held over from last month)
  - do we need something like [Arm CMSIS](https://developer.arm.com/tools-and-software/embedded/cmsis) or [SiFive Freedom Metal](https://github.com/sifive/freedom-metal)?
  - something we can develop applications against and then run on different core and system incarnations

- PlatformIO for CORE-V

  - discussion to be led by Ivan Kravets

- Software models

  - we need models which can be bundled with the IDE, to allow users to explore CORE-V without owning hardware.

- Linux

  - with the development of the CVA6 architecture, particularly its 64-bit version, this will become an urgent priority.

- Extension of existing projects to CVA6 and CVE2

  - GNU tools and FreeRTOS are currently scoped for CV32E40P and need to be considered for CVA6 and CVE2.

## AOB

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets monthly at 07:00 Pacific Time on the second Monday of the month.

- 08 Feb 2021
- 08 Mar 2021
- 12 Apr 2021
- 10 May 2021
- 14 Jun 2021
- 12 Jul 2021
- 09 Aug 2021
- 13 Sep 2021
- 11 Oct 2021
- 08 Nov 2021
- 13 Dec 2021

Jeremy Bennett, Chair\
Yunhai Shang, Vice-Chair
