# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Agenda

Monday 14 June 2021

- 07:00-08:00 Pacific Time
- 10:00-11:00 East Coast Time
- 14:00-15:00 UTC
- 15:00-16:00 UK Time
- 16:00-17:00 Central European Time
- 22:00-23:00 Beijing Time

## Location

Zoom meeting. **Note.** New link, getting rid of the waiting room.

- [us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761?pwd=M2kwRzNCUG82UFlJT0NMbnJPSXBCZz09](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761?pwd=M2kwRzNCUG82UFlJT0NMbnJPSXBCZz09)
- Meeting ID: 851 9441 6761
- Find your local number: [us02web.zoom.us/u/kuUW3yscL](https://us02web.zoom.us/u/kuUW3yscL)

# Agenda topics

## Register of attendance and introductions

We are recording attendance at meetings, so OpenHW Group can track membership in accordance with article 4 of the membership agreement. This matters particularly when email ballots are held, to ensure the voters represent member organizations who are active on the group. The attendance records are can be seen in the [program](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/tree/master/program) directory of the [core-v-docs repository](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs).

## Review of actions

**Ivan Kravets** and **Duncan Bees** to finalize the concept proposal for PlatformIO support and submit to the TWG meeting on 24 May 2021.

- Deferred to TWG meeting on 28 June 2021, see agenda item [PlatformIO project proposal](#platformio-project-proposal-5-minutes-allocated)

**Yunhai Shang** and his team to produce a comparative analysis of HAL
solutions for the meeting on 14 June 2021.

- See agenda item [Hardware abstraction layer](#hardware-abstraction-layer-15-minutes-allocated)

**Yunhai Shang** to propose a time for a demonstration of T-Head CSI for all interested parties.

- Action item open.

**Duncan Bees** to approach each project lead to organize advancing the project to the next process gate.

- Duncan Bees to report on progress.

**Jeremy Bennett** to add CORE-V MCU developer board SDK to the agenda of the next meeting for fuller discussion.

- Complete, see agenda item [Requirements for the CORE-V MCU developer board SDK](#requirements-for-the-core-v-mcu-developer-board-sdk-15-minutes-allocated)

**All** to consider whether they can lead the project to create the CORE-V MCU developer board SDK.

- Action item open.

## Report back from TWG (5 minutes allocated)

Report by Duncan Bees.

## Reports from current projects (15 minutes allocated)

Active projects under the Software Task Group will have provided a written report in advance. We also have one project under the Hardware Task Group which also reports into us.

Each project leader is asked to present any key issues for which community input frm the meeting is required. They will also take any questions.

- CORE-V IDE - Alexander Fedorov
- CORE-V GNU Tools - Jessica Mills
- CORE-V FreeRTOS - Robert Balas and Shteryana Shopova
- CORE-V Clang/LLVM - Philipp Krones and Zbigniew Chamski
- CORE-V Verilator modeling (HW TG project) - Jeremy Bennett

  - written report only, since Jeremy Bennett is on vacation.

## PlatformIO project proposal (5 minutes allocated)

Ivan Kravets and Duncan Bees will update on the concept proposal, due to be presented at the TWG on 28 June 2021.

## Hardware abstraction layer (15 minutes allocated)

The goal is to present a project concept proposal to the TWG on 28 June 2021.  Since there is a lot to be discussed, this meeting will focus on ensuring the requirements are agreed.

Duncan Bees and Yunhai Shang will present their analysis of the requirements for agreement by the meeting.

A follow-up meeting will take place at 14:00 UTC on Monday 21 June to approve the project concept proposal.

## Requirements for the CORE-V MCU developer board SDK (15 minutes allocated)

We had an initial presentation at our previous meeting.  This is an opportunity to explore the requirements in more detail.

Rick O'Connor to lead

## Linux integration (5 minutes allocated)

SÃ©bastian Jacq will lead an initial discussion, with a view to setting up this as a new software TG project.

## New potential projects

If time permits we will start discussion on the following topics.

- Extension of existing projects to CV32E40X, CV32E40S, CV32E41P, CVA6 and CVE2

  - GNU tools and FreeRTOS are currently scoped for CV32E40P and need to be considered for CVA6 and CVE2.

## AOB

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets monthly at 07:00 Pacific Time on the second Monday of the month.

- 21 Jun 2021 (extra 45 minute meeting for HAL consideration)
- 12 Jul 2021
- 09 Aug 2021
- 13 Sep 2021
- 11 Oct 2021
- 08 Nov 2021
- 13 Dec 2021

Jeremy Bennett, Chair\
Yunhai Shang, Vice-Chair
