# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Minutes

Monday 10 May 2021, 14:00 UTC

## Attendees and welcome new members

See separate [attendance register](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/blob/master/program/TGSoftware_Attendance_2021.md)

The following new members were welcomed.

- **Vincent Chu** from Alibaba T-Head
- **David Chen** from Alibaba T-Head
- **Gianmarco Ottavia** from the University of Bologna

## Summary of actions

**Ivan Kravets** and **Duncan Bees** to finalize the concept proposal for PlatformIO support and submit to the TWG meeting on 24 May 2021.

**Yunhai Shang** and his team to produce a comparative analysis of HAL solutions for the meeting on 14 June 2021.

**Yunhai Shang** to propose a time for a demonstration of T-Head CSI for all interested parties.

**Duncan Bees** to approach each project lead to organize advancing the project to the next process gate.

**Jeremy Bennett** to add CORE-V MCU developer board SDK to the agenda of the next meeting for fuller discussion.

**All** to consider whether they can lead the project to create the CORE-V MCU developer board SDK.

# Meeting topics

## Review of actions

**Jeremy Bennett** & **Duncan Bees** to review all software projects to determine what steps are needed to advance to Project Launch stage.

- In progress, see agenda item [Tuning the OpenHW gate process for software projects](#tuning-the-openhw-gate-process-for-software-projects)

**Duncan Bees** to circulate PlatformIO concept proposal on Software TG mailing list in advance of the TWG meeting for comment.

- Proposal was not presented at last TWG, see agenda item [PlatformIO project proposal](#platformio-project-proposal)

**Yunhai Shang** and his team to produce a literature survey of available options for the meeting on 10 May 2021, with a view to a full concept proposal the following month.

- See agenda item [Hardware abstraction layer](#hardware-abstraction-layer).

## Report back from TWG

MCU project has moved to Project Launch gate

- need to nail down the SDK (see agenda item [Requirements for the CORE-V MCU developer board SDK](#requirements-for-the-core-v-mcu-developer-board-sdk)

TWG is working towards appointing new Chair/Co-Chair, with a desire that the co-chair should have a more system/software perspective.  The nomination has closed, but please let Rick O'Connor know if you wish to take a more active role in the TWG.

## Reports from current projects

Active projects under the SW TG have provided a written report in advance.

### CORE-V IDE

Alexander Fedorov was not present, so there is no report this month.

### CORE-V GNU Tools

Jessica Mills (project lead) was on vacation, so Enrico Tabanelli and Nazareno Bruschi reported this month

See [report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/gnu-tools/2021/monthly-report-2021-05-10.md) by Enrico and Nazareno in the repository.

No substantial improvement since last meeting, but have adapted PULP simulator for CORE-V.  Working on blog post to explain it.  Also working on integrating GCC regression test suite with this simulator.

### CORE-V FreeRTOS

See [report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/freertos/2021/monthly-report-10-may-21.md) by Robert Balas and Shteryana Shopova in the repository.

Still have some hardware changes ongoing, waiting for this to settle, so can re-test.

### CORE-V Clang/LLVM

See [report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/clang-llvm/2021/monthly-report-2021-05-10.md) by Zbigniew Chamski and Philipp Krones in the repository.

CVA6 in process of qualifying LLVM 12 on the CVA6 test suite, using LLVM and LLD.  One known issue (upstream) of interaction between alignment and relaxation in LLD, so not currently supported.  Issue of size of binary to share.

Nothing new to report on CV32E40P

### Verilator modeling (Hardware Task Group project)

There is no formal report, because this is a Hardware Task Group project.  Jeremy Bennett, who is leading the software component of the project reported that he anticipated starting work on the debug server integration this month.

Alfredo Herrera has had to step down as project lead, due to work commitments.  For now Florian Zaruba is providing leadership for the project, assisted by Jeremy Bennett and Duncan Bees.

## PlatformIO project proposal

Duncan Bees and Ivan Kravets presented their draft concept proposal.

The meeting agreed to support this concept proposal nem. con.

**Action:** Ivan Kravets and Duncan Bees to finalize the concept proposal for PlatformIO support and submit to the TWG meeting on 24 May 2021.

## Hardware abstraction layer

Yunhai Shang presented his [report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/hal/2021/monthly-report-2021-05-10.md).

It was clarified that, while RISC-V International Platform HSC received the presentation of CSI warmly, they did not endorse it as the RISC-V HAL.

After some discussion it was agreed that before we could move forward with T-Head CSI, we needed to have a comparative analysis against the other options available for a HAL. This would provide the justification for our choice to the wider OpenHW community.

It was also agreed that we needed a separate meeting to allow the team to give a comprehensive demonstration of T-Head CSI.

**Action:** Yunhai Shang and his team to produce a comparative analysis of HAL solutions for the meeting on 14 June 2021.

**Action:** Yunhai Shang to propose a time for a demonstration of T-Head CSI for all interested parties.

## Tuning the OpenHW gate process for software projects

Duncan Bees presented an update to the OpenHW gate process more suitable for software projects, particularly those that involve porting standard software.

Duncan also summarized the position of existing projects within this framework.

**Action:** Duncan Bees to approach each project lead to organize advancing the project to the next process gate.

## Requirements for the CORE-V MCU developer board SDK

We need to capture the features and functions weâ€™d like to see as the user 'out of the box' SDK experience for the CORE-V MCU Developer Board.

Rick O'Connor led the discussion. We need a Software TG project to provide the integrated SDK that will work out of the box with the OpenHW Group MCU development platform.

Chip tapeout is September, chips on boards at start of 2022, put on to boards to ship in May 2022.

In discussion it was noted that the SDK is the flagship through which all Software TG projects will be visible.

**Action:** Jeremy Bennett to add CORE-V MCU developer board SDK to the agenda of the next meeting for fuller discussion.

**Action:** All to consider whether they can lead the project to create the CORE-V MCU developer board SDK.

## New potential projects

There was no time to discuss the following projects, which will be scheduled for future meetings.

- Extension of existing projects to CVA6 and CVE2
- Linux support

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets monthly at 07:00 Pacific Time on the second Monday of the month.

- 14 Jun 2021
- 12 Jul 2021
- 09 Aug 2021
- 13 Sep 2021
- 11 Oct 2021
- 08 Nov 2021
- 13 Dec 2021

Jeremy Bennett, Chair\
Yunhai Shang, Vice-Chair
