# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Agenda

Monday 10 May 2021

- 07:00-08:00 Pacific Time
- 10:00-11:00 East Coast Time
- 14:00-15:00 UTC
- 15:00-16:00 UK Time
- 16:00-17:00 Central European Time
- 22:00-23:00 Beijing Time

## Location

Zoom meeting. **Note.** New link, getting rid of the waiting room.

- [us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761?pwd=M2kwRzNCUG82UFlJT0NMbnJPSXBCZz09](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761?pwd=M2kwRzNCUG82UFlJT0NMbnJPSXBCZz09)
- Meeting ID: 851 9441 6761
- Find your local number: [us02web.zoom.us/u/kuUW3yscL](https://us02web.zoom.us/u/kuUW3yscL)

# Agenda topics

## Register of attendance and introductions

We are recording attendance at meetings, so OpenHW Group can track membership in accordance with article 4 of the membership agreement. This matters particularly when email ballots are held, to ensure the voters represent member organizations who are active on the group. The attendance records are can be seen in the [program](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/tree/master/program) directory of the [core-v-docs repository](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs).

## Review of actions

**Jeremy Bennett** & **Duncan Bees** to review all software projects to determine what steps are needed to advance to Project Launch stage.

- In progress, see agenda item [PlatformIO project proposal](#platformio-project-proposal-5-minutes-allocated)

**Duncan Bees** to circulate PlatformIO concept proposal on Software TG mailing list in advance of the TWG meeting for comment.

- Proposal was not presented at last TWG, see agenda item [Tuning the OpenHW gate process for software projects](#tuning-the-openhw-gate-process-for-software-projects-10-minutes-allocated)

**Yunhai Shang** and his team to produce a literature survey of available options for the meeting on 10 May 2021, with a view to a full concept proposal the following month.

- Yunhai will report in agenda item [Hardware abstraction layer](#hardware-abstraction-layer-15-minutes-allocated).

## Report back from TWG (5 minutes allocated)

Report by the chair and Duncan Bees.

## Reports from current projects (15 minutes allocated)

Active projects under the Software Task Group will have provided a written report in advance. We also have one project under the Hardware Task Group which also reports into us.

Each project leader is asked to present any key issues for which community input frm the meeting is required. They will also take any questions.

- CORE-V IDE - Alexander Fedorov
- CORE-V GNU Tools - Enrico Tabanelli and Nazareno Bruschi (standing in for Jessca Mills).
- CORE-V FreeRTOS - Robert Balas and Shteryana Shopova
- CORE-V Clang/LLVM - Philipp Krones and Zbigniew Chamski
- CORE-V Verilator modeling (HW TG project) - Jeremy Bennett

## PlatformIO project proposal (5 minutes allocated)

Ivan Kravets and Duncan Bees will report progress with the concept proposal.

## Hardware abstraction layer (15 minutes allocated)

Vice-chair of this group, Yunhai Shang, and his colleagues at Alibaba were given the action to carry out a literature review to determine all the options available to OpenHW Group for a HAL.  They will report back.

The goal is to have a Concept Proposal to present at next month's meeting, ready for ratification by the TWG.

## Tuning the OpenHW gate process for software projects (10 minutes allocated)

Duncan Bees will present ideas to make the OpenHW gate process more suitable for software projects, particularly those that involve porting standard software.

Duncan will also review where the current software projects stand in relation to the gate process.

## Requirements for the CORE-V MCU developer board SDK (10 minutes allocated)

We need to capture the features and functions weâ€™d like to see as the user 'out of the box' SDK experience for the CORE-V MCU Developer Board.

Rick O'Connor to lead

## New potential projects

If time permits we will start discussion on the following topics.

- Linux

  - with the development of the CVA6 architecture, particularly its 64-bit version, this will become an urgent priority.

- Extension of existing projects to CVA6 and CVE2

  - GNU tools and FreeRTOS are currently scoped for CV32E40P and need to be considered for CVA6 and CVE2.

## AOB

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets monthly at 07:00 Pacific Time on the second Monday of the month.

- 14 Jun 2021
- 12 Jul 2021
- 09 Aug 2021
- 13 Sep 2021
- 11 Oct 2021
- 08 Nov 2021
- 13 Dec 2021

Jeremy Bennett, Chair\
Yunhai Shang, Vice-Chair
