# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Minutes

Monday 11 October 2021, 14:00 UTC

## Attendees and welcome new members

See separate [attendance register](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/blob/master/program/TGSoftware_Attendance_2021.md)

Apologies were received from Yunhai Shang, Alexander Fedorov, Philipp Krones, Hugh O'Keeffe and Florian Zaruba.

There were no new members this month.

## Summary of actions

None

# Meeting topics

## Review of actions

- **Anjali Gedam** to investigate current status of CVA6 Clang/LLVM with **Zbigniew Chamski**.

  - Complete. Zbigniew was diverted to other projects, but is now back.

- **Olive Zhao** will provide a pull-request for her analysis (in the `core-v-sw` repository, `projects/hal` directory). This will then be used as the basis for ongoing review and discussion. If appropriate, she will convenene a separate meeting to review the analysis.

  - Deferred to next month in Olive's absence.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to commit the draft Concept Proposal for the SDK to the `core-v-sw` repository later this week, and then circulate for online review.

  - Complete.

- **Greg Martin** to review issues [#149](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-mcu/issues/149) and [#115](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-mcu/issues/115) raised by Robert Balas for the FreeRTOS project.

  - Action held open pending confirmation of resolution.

## Report back from TWG

- The SDK [concept
  proposal](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/blob/master/program/Project%20Descriptions%20and%20Plans/SDK/sdk-project-concept.md)
  was approved.  See also agenda item [Resourcing the SDK project](#resourcing-the-sdk-project).
- TWG is considering forming an interconnect group, looking at die-to-die communications.
- TWG is hoping to have approval for Devkit project at October 2021 TWG meeting.

## Reports from current projects

Active projects under the SW TG have provided a written report in advance.

### CORE-V IDE

There is no formal report this month, and Alexander Fedorov was unable to be present for the call. However he advised before the call that there had been no change beyond routine housekeeping.

### CORE-V GNU Tools

See [report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/gnu-tools/2021/monthly-report-2021-10-11.md) by Jessica Mills in the Software TG repository.

- no big updates this month, just fixing GCC regression failures.

### CORE-V FreeRTOS

See [report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/freertos/2021/monthly-report-11-oct-21.md) by Robert Balas and Shteryana Shopova in the Software TG repository.

- No progress this month.

### CORE-V Clang/LLVM

CV32E40P: No change this month.

CVA6: No change this month. Zbigniew Chamski has been diverted to other
projects for a few months, but has now returned to this project.

### Hardware Abstraction Layer

There is no written report this month, since Yunhai Shang is traveling.

### Software Development Kit (SDK)

This has been approved as a project concept, but pending appointment of a
project manager, there will be no monthly reports.

### CORE-V Verilator modeling (joint project with Hardware TG)

See [report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/blob/master/hw/projects/verilator-model/2021/20211011-swtg-report.md) by Jeremy Bennett in the CORE-V documents repository.

- no progress this month

## Progress to Project Launch for the HAL project

Deferred to next month in the absence of Yunhai Shang and Olive Zhao.

## Resourcing the SDK project

Jeremy Bennett presented the SDK Concept Proposal, focussing on the gap analysis, showing the need for a full time project manager and at least three engineer years of development effort.

Richard Barry noted the value of breaking up the large tasks into small tasks, which are easier for people to contribute to. He is working on consolidating the existing RISC-V work, which should lead to breaking out the tasks to be done for the FreeRTOS work component.

Rejeesh SB noted that Ashling could do a similar breakdown for the integration and installer work component.

Duncan Bees pointed out that one of the MCU weekly 30 minute sync ups might be a suitable point for finalizing what the devices to be supported are.

Giuseppe Tagliavini noted that holding events to support the other training material would be valuable.

## New potential projects

Duncan Bees noted that as well as broad support of existing tools and software for the various other architectures, we needed to consider Linux support for CVA6 and whether it needs a new SDK, or is an extension of the existing SDK.

We need a high level plan for all the project components needed. This should be future work for the Software Task Group.

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets monthly at 07:00 Pacific Time on the second Monday of the month.

- 08 Nov 2021
- 13 Dec 2021
- 10 Jan 2022
- 14 Feb 2022
- 14 Mar 2022
- 11 Apr 2022
- 9 May 2022
- 13 Jun 2022

Jeremy Bennett, Chair\
Yunhai Shang, Vice-Chair
