# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Minutes

Monday 8 March 2021, 15:00 UTC

## Attendees and welcome new members

See separate [attendance register](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/blob/master/program/TGSoftware_Attendance_2021.md)

The following new members were welcomed.

## Summary of actions

**Jeremy Bennett** & **Duncan Bees** to review all software projects to determine what steps are needed to advance to Project Launch stage.

**Jeremy Bennett** to coordinate with group leaders to prepare their presentations for OpenHW Day.

**Rick O'Connor** to look at legal aspects of building on CMSIS to determine our "freedom of action" - how and what can we do

**All** to consider if they could lead a group of technical experts to develop our plans for HAL.

# Meeting topics

## Review of actions

- **Florian Zaruba** to reach out 1:1 to OpenHW Group members to see if anoyone would like to contribute/lead a project to develop a Hardware Abstraction Layer (both for software and hardware use).

  - see agenda item [Hardware abstraction layer](#hardware-abstraction-layer).

- **Ivan Kravets** and **Duncan Bees** to liaise about creating a prelminary project proposal for a CORE-V PlatformIO project.

  - see agenda item [PlatformIO project proposal](#platformio-project-proposal).

- **Alexander Fedorov** and **Simon Davidmann** to discuss most appropriate approach to licensing OVPSim for the IDE, involving **Rick O'Connor** as appropriate.

  - Imperas will create a fixed ISS for CV32E40P{S,X} and CVA6. Will be placed on OpenHW GitHub for use by IDE.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to schedule final discussion on platforms and core models for software engineers for the meeting on 8 March 2021.

  - see agenda item [Platform and core models for software engineers](#platform-and-core-models-for-software-engineers).

## Report back from TWG

Dashboard redesigned, to simplify some gates where possible. Noted that all software projects are still at Project Concept stage (formerly Preliminary Project Proposal).

**ACTION:** Jeremy Bennett & Duncan Bees to review all software projects to determine what steps are needed to advance to Project Launch stage.

- Verilator modeling project was approved for Project Concept
- CV32E40X and CV32E40S cores approved for Project Launch

## Reports from current projects

All active projects under the SW TG have provided a written report in advance.

### CORE-V IDE

See [report]() by Alexander Fedorov in repository.

- still need exemplary projects
- need more metadata

### CORE-V GNU Tools

See [report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/gnu-tools/2021/monthly-report-2021-03-08.md) by Jessica Mills in repository.

Have changed `-march=Xcorevpostinc` `-march=Xcorevmem`. This is coordinated with the Clang/LLVM project.

### CORE-V FreeRTOS

See [report]() by Shteryana Shopova and Robert Balas in repository.

- FreeRTOS kernel and combined (includind drivers) repositories now published on OpenHW
- waiting on a new bitstream for the latest hardware.

Question from Simon Davidmann. Where is the specification for the MCU project, only have RTL?
Answer from Hugh Pollitt-Swith & Tim Saxe. Use Pulpissimo for now. Working on creating spec now.

### CORE-V Clang/LLVM

See [report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/clang-llvm/2021/monthly-report-2021-03-08.md) by Philipp Krones and André Szintoff in repository.

- Have incorporated all University of Tübingen into the LLVM assembler for CV32E40P. Now moving on to compiler builtins.
- Zbigniew Chamski has been out for some months, now picking up the CVA6 project.

### Verilator modeling (Hardware Task Group project)

This project also reports to Software Task Group because of our interest in cycle accurate modeling for software.

In the absence of Afredo Herrera, there was nothing to report.

## OpenHW Day: 1 April 2021 (10 minutes allocated)

OpenHW day is part of Paris RISC-V week. We have 90 minutes to showcase the work of the Software Task Group from 11:00-12:30 CET on Thursday 1 April. The focus is on demoing rather than just talking.

After discussion, the meeting agreed the following program, with all project leaders willing to contribute.

- 11:00 GCC & LLVM
- 11:15 FreeRTOS
- 11:30 IDEs (Eclipse & PlatformIO)
- 11:45 Software simulation models (Verilator and OVPSim)
- 12:00 Future projects
- 12:15 Q&A

In the discussion the importance of crafting demos to fit in the available time.

**ACTION:** Jeremy Bennett to coordinate with group leaders to prepare their presentations for OpenHW Day.

## Platform and core models for software engineers

(continuation of last month's agenda item)

Within the remit of the Software TG is provision of models for use by software engineers.  Last month we agreed to support the Verilator modeling project for software engineers requiring a cycle accurate model.

Simon Davidmann presented Imperas' offer to make OVPSim available without charge for all other modeling needs.

- RISC-V OVPSim CORE-V with all CORE-V variants, which will be the ISS to work with GDB.
- Also a fixed platform simulator for the MCU. This is a system simulation, allowing software bring up.

All up on GitHub as proprietary freeware.

The meeting welcomed the offer of Imperas to make OVPSim available for all other modeling requirements for software of OpenHW Group.

## PlatformIO project proposal

Ivan Kravets and Duncan Bees are preparing the Concept Proposal. This was an initiate presentation of the proposal.  In the first instance this will be a standalone PlatformIO implementation for CORE-V, but the long term objective is to integrate with the Eclipse CDT work of our existing IDE project.

## Hardware abstraction layer

This is becoming a major issue across the RISC-V ecosystem (not just CORE-V).  It is already an issue for our FreeRTOS, IDE and proposed PlatformIO projects.  We have an opportunity to provide leadership beyond just the OpenHW Group by tackling this issue.

The project can be summarized as "provide an equivalent of Arm [CMSIS](https://developer.arm.com/tools-and-software/embedded/cmsis) for CORE-V"

* a specification of the standard
* an initial implementation for CV32E40P FPGA-MCU
* implementations for other CORE-V platforms.
* migration of existing CORE-V projects to use the HAL

Zbigniew Chamski has dipped toes into CMSIS, and also seen others, so knows a bit about what works and what does not. Want to avoid excessive tooling. Needs serious thinking by a group of experts.

Duncan Bees has been involved with an industry project to abstract device definitions. How get started to yield early results.

Other points:

- Linux concept of device trees for a uniform approach across platforms and versions has merit
- CMSIS has been redone for RISC-V by Nuclei.
- Why should OpenHW lead on this?
- HALs are good for standardizing specifications.

Yunhai Shang has used CMSIS, noted has many components. Just need core and driver components in the first instance.

Can we just modify CMSIS for CORE-V? Copyright or patent issue?

**ACTION:** Rick O'Connor to look at legal aspects of building on CMSIS to determine our "freedom of action" - how and what can we do

**ACTION:** All to consider if they could lead a group of technical experts to develop our plans for HAL.

## New potential projects

There was no time to discuss the following projects, which will be scheduled for future meetings.

- Extension of existing projects to CVA6 and CVE2
- Linux support

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets monthly at 07:00 Pacific Time on the second Monday of the month.

- 12 Apr 2021
- 10 May 2021
- 14 Jun 2021
- 12 Jul 2021
- 09 Aug 2021
- 13 Sep 2021
- 11 Oct 2021
- 08 Nov 2021
- 13 Dec 2021

Jeremy Bennett, Chair\
Yunhai Shang, Vice-Chair
