# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Minutes

Monday 10 March 2025

- 07:00-08:00 Pacific Time
- 10:00-11:00 East Coast Time
- 15:00-16:00 UTC
- 15:00-16:00 UK Time
- 16:00-17:00 Central European Time
- 23:00-00:00 Beijing Time

## Attendees and welcome new members

See the separate [attendance register](https://github.com/openhwgroup/programs/blob/master/TWG-and-TG-Attendance-Tracking/TGSoftware_Attendance_2024.md)

# Meeting topics

## Succession planning (5 minutes allocated)

**Paolo Savini** is standing downa as chair of the SW task group. Anyone interested in the role should contact him.

Since a lot of contributions to the SW projects are coming from Asia it would be good to have a chair or co-chair from that geographical region and possibly to arrange the meetings so to allow larger groups from Asia to join the calls.

## Review of actions (5 minutes allocated)

- **Paolo Savini** and **Chunyu Liao** to use upstream QEMU for CORE-V to test respectively the GNU and LLVM tool chains.
  - IN PROGRESS, **Paolo Savini** to review a Weiwei's work and update QEMU.

## Reports from current projects (10 minutes allocated)

Active projects under the Software Task Group will have provided a written report in advance (see the [project specific directories](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects) of the [core-v-sw](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw) repository. We also have one project under the Hardware Task Group which also reports into us.

Each project leader is asked to present any key issues for which community input from the meeting is required.  Project leaders will also take any questions.

- CORE-V GNU Tools for CV32E40PV2 - Nandni Jamnadas/Mary Bennett
  - Ongoing work to land the last patches.
- CORE-V FreeRTOS - Joe Julicher
  - No further development.
- CORE-V Clang/LLVM for CV32E40PV2 - Paolo Savini and Chunyu Liao
  - Ongoing work to land the last patches.
- CORE-V SDK/IDE - Hugh O'Keefe and Promod Kumar
  - No further development.
- CORE-V CV32E40PV2 Verilator modeling for software - Jeremy Bennett
  - No updates at the moment.

## Review of previous topics (10 minutes allocated)

- CVE20:
  - No updates.

- CVA6-Platform for SW development and regression - **Jonathan Balkind**, **Moiz Hussain**, **Redbeard**, **Flo Wohlrab**.
  - Following the negative response from RISE we'll look for other routes to get funding for the project.

- Eclipse Theia & CDT Cloud.
  - **Mike Thompson** to reach out to ** Frederic Desbiens**.

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets every two months at 15:00 UK Time on the second Monday of odd numbered months.  On other even numbered months projects submit reports.

| Date        | Activity                                              |
| :---------- | :---------------------------------------------------- |
| 14 Apr 2025 | Report only                                           |
| 12 May 2025 | Meeting (in person at Paris RISC-V Summit) and report |
| 09 Jun 2025 | Report only                                           |
| 14 Jul 2025 | Meeting and report                                    |
| 11 Aug 2025 | Report only                                           |
| 08 Sep 2025 | Meeting and report                                    |


## AOB


Paolo Savini, Chair
