# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Minutes

Monday 13 January 2025

- 07:00-08:00 Pacific Time
- 10:00-11:00 East Coast Time
- 15:00-16:00 UTC
- 15:00-16:00 UK Time
- 16:00-17:00 Central European Time
- 23:00-00:00 Beijing Time

## Attendees and welcome new members

See the separate [attendance register](https://github.com/openhwgroup/programs/blob/master/TWG-and-TG-Attendance-Tracking/TGSoftware_Attendance_2024.md)

# Meeting topics

## Review of actions (5 minutes allocated)

- **Paolo Savini** and **Chunyu Liao** to use upstream QEMU for CORE-V to test respectively the GNU and LLVM tool chains.
  - IN PROGRESS, **Paolo Savini** to review a Weiwei's work and update QEMU.

## Reports from current projects (10 minutes allocated)

Active projects under the Software Task Group will have provided a written report in advance (see the [project specific directories](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects) of the [core-v-sw](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw) repository. We also have one project under the Hardware Task Group which also reports into us.

Each project leader is asked to present any key issues for which community input from the meeting is required.  Project leaders will also take any questions.

- CORE-V GNU Tools for CV32E40PV2 - Nandni Jamnadas/Mary Bennett
  - Ongoing work to land the last patches.
- CORE-V FreeRTOS - Joe Julicher
  - No further development.
- CORE-V Clang/LLVM for CV32E40PV2 - Paolo Savini and Chunyu Liao
  - Ongoing work to land the last patches.
- CORE-V SDK/IDE - Hugh O'Keefe and Promod Kumar
  - No further development.
- CORE-V CV32E40PV2 Verilator modeling for software - Jeremy Bennett
  - No updates at the moment.

## Review of previous topics (10 minutes allocated)

- CVE20:
  - We might need a new project to for the CVE20 model.
    - No updates.

- CVA6-Platform for SW development and regression - **Jonathan Balkind**, **Moiz Hussain**, **Redbeard**, **Flo Wohlrab**.
  - The RISE team is not very interested in an FPGA platform to run their tests. They'd rather use "real hardware" or an emulation (QEMU) model. We have neither of these things for the CVA6 Platform at the moment.
  - The OpenPiton configuration of the CVA6 no longer boot Linux, see [CVA6 Issues #2700](https://github.com/openhwgroup/cva6/issues/2700).

- Eclipse Theia & CDT Cloud.
  - no updates.

## Other topics.

Adiyta Tiwari from Circuitsutra proposed a 45 minutes presentation of their work for next meeting.
We have arranged to organize a dedicated meeting on 10th February so that Umesh Sisodia, Adiyta Tiwari and Ayush Mewati have the chance to demonstrate their work to the SW task group.

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets every two months at 15:00 UK Time on the second Monday of odd numbered months.  On other even numbered months projects submit reports.

| Date        | Activity                              |
| :---------- | :------------------------------------ |
| 10 Feb 2025 | Presentation by the Circuitsutra Team |
| 10 Mar 2025 | Meeting and report                    |
| 14 Apr 2025 | Report only                           |
| 12 May 2025 | Meeting and report                    |
| 09 Jun 2025 | Report only                           |
| 14 Jul 2025 | Meeting and report                    |


## AOB


Paolo Savini, Chair
