# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Agenda

Monday 10 March 2025

- 07:00-08:00 Pacific Time
- 10:00-11:00 East Coast Time
- 15:00-16:00 UTC
- 15:00-16:00 UK Time
- 16:00-17:00 Central European Time
- 23:00-00:00 Beijing Time

## Location

Zoom meeting.

- [us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761?pwd=M2kwRzNCUG82UFlJT0NMbnJPSXBCZz09](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761?pwd=M2kwRzNCUG82UFlJT0NMbnJPSXBCZz09)
- Meeting ID: 851 9441 6761
- Find your local number: [us02web.zoom.us/u/kuUW3yscL](https://us02web.zoom.us/u/kuUW3yscL)

# Agenda topics

## Register of attendance, introductions and apologies

We are recording attendance at meetings, so OpenHW Group can track membership in accordance with article 4 of the membership agreement. This matters particularly when email ballots are held, to ensure the voters represent member organizations who are active on the group. The attendance records can be seen in the [program](https://github.com/openhwgroup/programs) directory.

## Succession planning (5 minutes allocated)

I am standing down as chair of the SW task group. Anyone interested in taking up the role feel free to contact me.

## Review of actions (5 minutes allocated)

- **Paolo Savini** and **Chunyu Liao** to use upstream QEMU for CORE-V to test respectively the GNU and LLVM tool chains.
  - IN PROGRESS, **Paolo Savini** to review a Weiwei's work and update QEMU.

## Reports from current projects (10 minutes allocated)

Active projects under the Software Task Group will have provided a written report in advance (see the [project specific directories](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects) of the [core-v-sw](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw) repository. We also have one project under the Hardware Task Group which also reports into us.

Each project leader is asked to present any key issues for which community input from the meeting is required.  Project leaders will also take any questions.

- CORE-V GNU Tools for CV32E40PV2 - Nandni Jamnadas/Mary Bennett
- CORE-V FreeRTOS - Joe Julicher
- CORE-V Clang/LLVM for CV32E40PV2 - Paolo Savini and Chunyu Liao
- CORE-V SDK/IDE - Hugh O'Keefe and Promod Kumar
- CORE-V CV32E40PV2 Verilator modeling for software - Jeremy Bennett

## Report back from TWG (5 minutes allocated)

Report of key issues affecting the Software TG from the TWG meetings.

## CV64A60AX requirements discussion (20 minutes allocated) - **Tanuj Khandelwal**

## Review of previous topics (10 minutes allocated)

- CVE20 model.

- CVA6-Platform for SW development and regression - **Jonathan Balkind**, **Moiz Hussain**, **Redbeard**.

- Eclipse Theia & CDT Cloud.

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets every two months at 15:00 UK Time on the second Monday of odd numbered months.  On other even numbered months projects submit reports.

| Date        | Activity                              |
| :---------- | :------------------------------------ |
| 14 Apr 2025 | Report only                           |
| 12 May 2025 | Meeting and report                    |
| 09 Jun 2025 | Report only                           |
| 14 Jul 2025 | Meeting and report                    |
| 11 Aug 2025 | Report only                           |
| 08 Sep 2025 | Meeting and report                    |


## AOB


Paolo Savini, Chair
