# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Agenda

Monday 12 October 2020

- 07:00-08:00 Pacific Time
- 10:00-11:00 East Coast Time
- 14:00-15:00 UTC
- 15:00-16:00 UK Time
- 16:00-17:00 Central European Time
- 22:00-23:00 Beijing Time

## Location

Zoom meeting

- [us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761)
- Meeting ID: 851 9441 6761
- Find your local number: [us02web.zoom.us/u/kcVlqVA9vi](https://us02web.zoom.us/u/kcVlqVA9vi)

# Agenda topics

## Register of attendance

We are recording attendance at meetings, so OpenHW Group can track membership in accordance with article 4 of the membership agreement. This matters particularly when email ballots are held, to ensure the voters represent member organizations who are active on the group. The attendance records are can be seen in the [program](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/tree/master/program) directory of the [core-v-docs repository](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs).

## Review of actions

- **Jeremy Bennett:** Submit preliminary project proposal for GNU Tools development to TWG meeting on 28 September 2020.

  - complete - see agenda item [Update from TWG](#update-from-twg).

- **Jeremy Bennett:** Revise the commercial ecosystem page in light of comments for review via Mattermost, with a view to sign-off at next month's meeting.

  - in progress - see agenda item [Promoting the software ecosystems](#promoting-the-software-ecosystem).

## Update from TWG

Report by the chair

- approval of the CORE-V GNU Tools preliminary project proposal on 5 October 2020.
- pending approval of the CORE-V IDE preliminary project proposal.
- proposal from John Martin of EMUS for ISA extension support in the CV32E40P core.

## Reports from current projects

Active projects will give a 5 minute status report each month.

- CORE-V GNU Tools - Jessica Mills
- CORE-V IDE - Alexander Fedorov

  - subject to Alexander being back from vacation

## New potential projects

- CORE-V Clang/LLVM - Jean-Roch Coulon

  - Jean-Roch will outline his ideas for a project to develop Clang/LLVM support for CORE-V.  If there is general aggreement from this meeting, he will prepare a preliminary project proposal for submission to TWG.

## Promoting the software ecosystem

An initial proposal for presenting the commercial ecosystem within the main repository was presented last month.  This was welcomed and many proposals were made to improve the framework.  These improvements will be reviewed this month.

## AOB

## Dates for future meetings

The group meets monthly at 07:00 Pacific Time on the second Monday of the month.

- 09 Nov 2020
- 14 Dec 2020
- 11 Jan 2020
- 08 Feb 2020
- 08 Mar 2020
- 12 Apr 2020
- 10 May 2020
- 14 Jun 2020
- 12 Jul 2020
- 09 Aug 2020
- 13 Sep 2020
- 11 Oct 2020
- 08 Nov 2020
- 13 Dec 2020

Jeremy Bennett, Chair
