# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Agenda

Monday 13 Jun 2022

- 07:00-08:00 Pacific Time
- 10:00-11:00 East Coast Time
- 14:00-15:00 UTC
- 15:00-16:00 UK Time
- 16:00-17:00 Central European Time
- 22:00-23:00 Beijing Time

## Location

Zoom meeting.

- [us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761?pwd=M2kwRzNCUG82UFlJT0NMbnJPSXBCZz09](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761?pwd=M2kwRzNCUG82UFlJT0NMbnJPSXBCZz09)
- Meeting ID: 851 9441 6761
- Find your local number: [us02web.zoom.us/u/kuUW3yscL](https://us02web.zoom.us/u/kuUW3yscL)

# Agenda topics

## Register of attendance, introductions and apologies

We are recording attendance at meetings, so OpenHW Group can track membership in accordance with article 4 of the membership agreement. This matters particularly when email ballots are held, to ensure the voters represent member organizations who are active on the group. The attendance records are can be seen in the [program](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/tree/master/program) directory of the [core-v-docs repository](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs).

## Review of actions (25 minutes allocated)

- **Duncan Bees** to prepare a draft roadmap of all existing projects for review at the next meeting.

  - held open for preparation of forward looking aspect of the roadmap.

- **Duncan Bees** to bring interested parties together to bring the Linux tool project being developed by Thales into visibility within the Software TG.

  - held open.

- **Mike Thompson** to complete the quick start guide for FreeRTOS on emulation, Xcelium simulation and Verilator.

  - work in progress, action remains open.

- **Duncan Bees** to have conversation with Hugh O'Keeffe, Robert Balas, Shterana Shopova and Richard Barry about moving CORE-V FreeRTOS project to Project Launch gate.  Meeting scheduled for 14 January at 15:00 UTC.

  - progressing, remains open pending completion.

- **Richard Barry** to bring forward FreeRTOS Project Launch documents to next TWG meeting.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to take CORE-V Verilator Modeling project through Project Launch gate.

  - carried forward from earlier meeting.

- **Duncan Bees** to give an introduction to Kevin @ Thales to establish status of Clang/LLVM for CVA6.

  - carried forward.

- **Hugh O'Keefe** to arrange an appropriate README in the old IDE repository to guide others to the SDK repository.

- **Duncan Bees** to work with the Ashling team to bring the SDK project into the OpenHW Group Eclipse process.

- **Weiwei Li** and **Duncan Bees** to meet to arrange making this a CORE-V project.

- **Action:** Yunhai Chang and Duncan Bees to update CORE-V plans to align with the RISC-V International strategy.

- **All** to contact Duncan Bees if they would like to be involved with OpenChain/SBOM work.

- **All** to contact Jeremy Bennett if you wish to take over leadership of Clang/LLVM for CV32E40P.

## Report back from TWG (5 minutes allocated)

Duncan Bees to report.

## Reports from current projects (20 minutes allocated)

Active projects under the Software Task Group will have provided a written report in advance (seet the [project specific directories](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects) of the [core-v-sw](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw) repository. We also have one project under the Hardware Task Group which also reports into us.

Each project leader is asked to present any key issues for which community input from the meeting is required.  Project leaders will also take any questions.

- CORE-V GNU Tools - Maxim Blinov
- CORE-V FreeRTOS - Robert Balas and Shteryana Shopova
- CORE-V Clang/LLVM - Philipp Krones and Zbigniew Chamski
- Hardware Abstraction Layer - Yunhain Shang and Olive Zhao
- CORE-V SDK/IDE - Hugh O'Keefe
- CORE-V Verilator modeling (HW TG project) - Jeremy Bennett
- Qemu for Core-V - WeiWei Li


## AOB

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets monthly at 15:00 UK Time on the second Monday of the month.

- 11 Jul 2022
- 8 Aug 2022
- 12 Sep 2022
- 10 Oct 2022
- 14 Nov 2022

Noting how busy December can be, I have again proposed no meeting in that month.


Jeremy Bennett, Chair\
Yunhai Shang, Vice-Chair
