# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Agenda

Monday 11 April 2022

- 07:00-08:00 Pacific Time
- 10:00-11:00 East Coast Time
- 14:00-15:00 UTC
- 15:00-16:00 UK Time
- 16:00-17:00 Central European Time
- 22:00-23:00 Beijing Time

**Note.** Clocks in Europe, have moved forward 1 hour, so North American times are back to usual and times in Beijing are one hour earlier.

## Location

Zoom meeting.

- [us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761?pwd=M2kwRzNCUG82UFlJT0NMbnJPSXBCZz09](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761?pwd=M2kwRzNCUG82UFlJT0NMbnJPSXBCZz09)
- Meeting ID: 851 9441 6761
- Find your local number: [us02web.zoom.us/u/kuUW3yscL](https://us02web.zoom.us/u/kuUW3yscL)

# Agenda topics

## Register of attendance and introductions

We are recording attendance at meetings, so OpenHW Group can track membership in accordance with article 4 of the membership agreement. This matters particularly when email ballots are held, to ensure the voters represent member organizations who are active on the group. The attendance records are can be seen in the [program](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/tree/master/program) directory of the [core-v-docs repository](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs).

## Review of actions (20 minutes allocated)

- **Duncan Bees** to prepare a draft roadmap of all existing projects for review at the next meeting.

  - carried forward from an earlier meeting.

- **Mike Thompson** to complete the quick start guide for FreeRTOS on emulation, Xcelium simulation and Verilator.

- **Mike Thompson**, **Florian Zaruba** & **Shteryana Shopover** to discuss technologies to link bitstreams and CLI repository code.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to roll forward GCC and Binutils/GDB to include the B extension support.

  - carried forward from earlier meeting.

- **Duncan Bees** to set up meeting(s) as necessary to take CORE-V GCC through project launch gate, targeting the TWG on 28 February 2022.

  - carried forward from earlier meeting.

- **Duncan Bees** to have conversation with Hugh O'Keeffe, Robert Balas, Shterana Shopova and Richard Barry about moving CORE-V FreeRTOS project to Project Launch gate.  Meeting scheduled for 14 January at 15:00 UTC.

  - carried forward from earlier meeting.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to take CORE-V Verilator Modeling project through Project Launch gate.

  - carried forward from earlier meeting.

## Report back from TWG (5 minutes allocated)

Duncan Bees to report.

## Reports from current projects (30 minutes allocated)

Active projects under the Software Task Group will have provided a written report in advance (seet the [project specific directories](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects) of the [core-v-sw](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw) repository. We also have one project under the Hardware Task Group which also reports into us.

Each project leader is asked to present any key issues for which community input from the meeting is required.  Project leaders will also take any questions.

- CORE-V IDE - Alexander Fedorov
- CORE-V GNU Tools - Maxim Blinov
- CORE-V FreeRTOS - Robert Balas and Shteryana Shopova
- CORE-V Clang/LLVM - Philipp Krones and Zbigniew Chamski
- Hardware Abstraction Layer - Yunhain Shang and Olive Zhao
- Software Development Kit - Hugh O'Keefe
- CORE-V Verilator modeling (HW TG project) - Jeremy Bennett

## AOB

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets monthly at 15:00 UK Time on the second Monday of the month.

- 11 Apr 2022
- 9 May 2022
- 13 Jun 2022
- 11 Jul 2022
- 8 Aug 2022
- 12 Sep 2022
- 10 Oct 2022
- 14 Nov 2022

Noting how busy December can be, I have again proposed no meeting in that month.


Jeremy Bennett, Chair\
Yunhai Shang, Vice-Chair
