# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Minutes

Monday 8 August 2022, 14:00 UTC

## Attendees and welcome new members

Welcome:

See separate [attendance register](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/blob/master/program/TWG-and-TG-Attendance-Tracking/TGSoftware_Attendance_2022.md)

Apologies were received from Shteryana Shopova and Florian Zaruba.

## Summary of actions

- **Duncan Bees** to prepare a draft roadmap of all existing projects for review at the next meeting.

  - held open - work still in progress.

- **Duncan Bees** to bring interested parties together to bring the Linux tool project being developed by Thales into visibility within the Software TG.

  - held open.

- **Mike Thompson** to complete the quick start guide for FreeRTOS on emulation, Xcelium simulation and Verilator.

  - work in progress, action remains open.

- **Duncan Bees** to have conversation with Hugh O'Keeffe, Robert Balas, Shterana Shopova and Richard Barry about moving CORE-V FreeRTOS project to Project Launch gate.  Meeting scheduled for 14 January at 15:00 UTC.

  - see agenda item on software process gates
  - Project Launch and Project Approval to be reviewed by Software TG (see later)

- **Jeremy Bennett** to take CORE-V Verilator Modeling project through Project Launch gate.

  - carried forward. Anticipate completing this action in September time frame.

- **Duncan Bees** to give an introduction to Kevin @ Thales to establish status of Clang/LLVM for CVA6.

  - carried forward.

- **Weiwei Li** and **Duncan Bees** to meet to arrange make CORE-V QEMU a CORE-V project.

  - in progress, goal is TWG meeting of 22 August.
  - **Action:** Share with SW TG via MM in advance

- **Yunhai Shang** and **Duncan Bees** to update CORE-V HAL plans to align with the RISC-V International strategy.

  - open, pending completion of plans later this yet.
  - Richad Barry to contribute to reviewing

- **Jeremy Bennett** to propose new GNU Tools project chair at the next meeting.

- **all** existing new users need to switch to and try the new SDK release.

# Meeting topics

## Review of actions

- **Duncan Bees** to prepare a draft roadmap of all existing projects for review at the next meeting.

  - held open - work still in progress.

- **Duncan Bees** to bring interested parties together to bring the Linux tool project being developed by Thales into visibility within the Software TG.

  - held open.

- **Mike Thompson** to complete the quick start guide for FreeRTOS on emulation, Xcelium simulation and Verilator.

  - work in progress, action remains open.

- **Duncan Bees** to have conversation with Hugh O'Keeffe, Robert Balas, Shterana Shopova and Richard Barry about moving CORE-V FreeRTOS project to Project Launch gate.  Meeting scheduled for 14 January at 15:00 UTC.

  - see agenda item on software process gates
  - Project Launch and Project Approval to be reviewed by Software TG (see later)

- **Jeremy Bennett** to take CORE-V Verilator Modeling project through Project Launch gate.

  - carried forward. Anticipate completing this action in September time frame.

- **Duncan Bees** to give an introduction to Kevin @ Thales to establish status of Clang/LLVM for CVA6.

  - carried forward.

- **Weiwei Li** and **Duncan Bees** to meet to arrange make CORE-V QEMU a CORE-V project.

  - in progress, goal is TWG meeting of 22 August.
  - **Action:** Share with SW TG via MM in advance

- **Action:** Yunhai Chang and Duncan Bees to update CORE-V HAL plans to align
  with the RISC-V International strategy.

  - RISC-V International CSI TG announced in July, still preparing plans, then will align.
  - no update
  - add Richard Barry to action
  - held open

- **All** to contact Duncan Bees if they would like to be involved with OpenChain/SBOM work.

  - closing action, after 3 months for anyone to contact Duncan.

## Project leads (5 minutes allocated)

Charlie Keaney of Embecosm was appointed lead for the 32-bit CORE-V Clang/LLVM project nem con.

Maxim Blinov is leaving Embecosm to return to academic studies, and will therefore step down as GNU Tools project lead.  The meeting thanked Maxim for his contribution to OpenHW Group

Anyone with GNU Tools experience interested in taking over leadership of this project, including running the weekly conference calls is invited to put their name forward the chair, with a view to appointing a lead at our next meeting.

**Action** Jeremy Bennett to propose new GNU Tools project chair at the next meeting.

## Report back from TWG

David Lynch appointed as Co-Chair

Project updates:

- DevKit: Project Approval
- CORE-V co-processor verification: Project Concept
- CVA6 L1 Cache: Project Concept

Announced student competition around CVA5 to develop accelerator technology. Measured against Embench benchmarks. Developing vector based accelerators (RVV 1.0).

## Reports from current projects

Active projects under the SW TG have provided a written report in advance. These reports can be found in the [project specific directories](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects) of the [core-v-sw](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw) repository.

- CORE-V GNU Tools - Maxim Blinov

  - nothing to add

- CORE-V Clang/LLVM - Charlie Keaney and Zbigniew Chamski

  - 32-bit Clang/LLVM

    - nothing to add

  - 64-bit Clang/LLVM: no report

- Hardware Abstraction Layer - Yunhai Shang and Olive Zhao

  - waiting until RISC-V International has plan in place
  - need to coordinate with Vincent Chu who is leading this work.

- CORE-V SDK/IDE - Hugh O'Keefe

  - another alpha release of SDK/IDE, details in report
  - updated Quick Start guide
  - next task: planning next release, main feature is FreeRTOS debug views
  - Tamas Olaszi from Jade is working on adding CSR view
  - **Action** all existing new users need to switch to and try the new SDK release.
  - beta release and full release need more long term planning.

- CORE-V Verilator modeling (HW TG project) - Jeremy Bennett

  - on hold, expected to restart beginning of September.

- QEMU for Core-V - WeiWei Li

  - nothing to add

- CORE-V FreeRTOS - Robert Balas

  - has got working on Verilator simulation, but work in progress.

## Project management for software projects (15 minutes allocated)

Top level project oversight by the TWG is through a phased management process. The initial phases are:

- **Project Concept**, when the broad scope of what is being developed is understood, along with the market imperative for doing the project;

- **Project Launch**, when the engineering approach is understood, with a plan inplace and outline timescale; and

- **Project Approval**, when the project is fully understood and a resourced engineering plan with delivery dates is available.

Each of these phases is gated by a proposal which must be approved by the TWG. Thus providing oversight and ensuring quality of all OpenHW projects.

This doesn't work that well for software projects, particularly when they are porting well established open source software.  It also doesn't make sense to have a full process everytime we do a new version of a software project for a different chip.

Duncan Bees presented a proposed alternative approach for software projects.  See the [draft on Google Docs](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1KhKeQOBckhHIhCXa2zZ-F-9iUoMO1pXr/edit#heading=h.lnxbz9).

## AOB

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets monthly at 15:00 UK time on the second Monday of the month.

- 12 Sep 2022
- 10 Oct 2022
- 14 Nov 2022

Noting how busy December can be, no meeting is scheduled in that month.


Jeremy Bennett, Chair\
Yunhai Shang, Vice-Chair
