# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Minutes

Monday 10 October 2022, 14:00 UTC

## Attendees and welcome new members

Welcome:

See separate [attendance register](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/blob/master/program/TWG-and-TG-Attendance-Tracking/TGSoftware_Attendance_2022.md)

Apologies were received from Duncan Bees and Hugh O'Keeffe.

## Summary of actions

- **Duncan Bees** to prepare a draft roadmap of all existing projects for review at the next meeting.

  - held open - work still in progress.

- **Duncan Bees** to bring interested parties together to bring the Linux tool project being developed by Thales into visibility within the Software TG.

  - held open.

- **Mike Thompson** to complete the quick start guide for FreeRTOS on emulation, Xcelium simulation and Verilator.

  - work in progress, action remains open.

- **Duncan Bees** to have conversation with Hugh O'Keeffe, Robert Balas, Shterana Shopova and Richard Barry about moving CORE-V FreeRTOS project to Project Launch gate.  Meeting scheduled for 14 January at 15:00 UTC.

  - Project Launch and Project Approval to be reviewed by Software TG (see later)
  - held open to next meeting

- **Jeremy Bennett** to take CORE-V Verilator Modeling project through Project Launch gate.

  - carried forward. Anticipate completing this action in October/November time frame.

- **Duncan Bees** to give an introduction to Kevin @ Thales to establish status of Clang/LLVM for CVA6.

  - carried forward.

- **Yunhai Shang** and **Duncan Bees** to update CORE-V HAL plans to align with the RISC-V International strategy.

  - open, pending completion of plans later this yet.
  - Richad Barry to contribute to reviewing

- **Jeremy Bennett** to propose new GNU Tools project chair at the next meeting.

  - deferred to next meeting

- **All project leads** to consider whether they can move forward to their next project gate.

# Meeting topics

## Review of actions

- **Duncan Bees** to prepare a draft roadmap of all existing projects for review at the next meeting.

  - held open - work still in progress.

- **Duncan Bees** to bring interested parties together to bring the Linux tool project being developed by Thales into visibility within the Software TG.

  - held open.

- **Mike Thompson** to complete the quick start guide for FreeRTOS on emulation, Xcelium simulation and Verilator.

  - work in progress, action remains open.

- **Duncan Bees** to have conversation with Hugh O'Keeffe, Robert Balas, Shterana Shopova and Richard Barry about moving CORE-V FreeRTOS project to Project Launch gate.  Meeting scheduled for 14 January at 15:00 UTC.

  - Project Launch and Project Approval to be reviewed by Software TG (see later)
  - held open to next meeting

- **Jeremy Bennett** to take CORE-V Verilator Modeling project through Project Launch gate.

  - carried forward. Anticipate completing this action in October/November time frame.

- **Duncan Bees** to give an introduction to Kevin @ Thales to establish status of Clang/LLVM for CVA6.

  - carried forward.

- **Weiwei Li** and **Duncan Bees** to meet to arrange make CORE-V QEMU a CORE-V project.

  - COMPLETE. Approved as an official project.

- **Yunhai Shang** and **Duncan Bees** to update CORE-V HAL plans to align with the RISC-V International strategy.

  - open, pending completion of plans later this yet.
  - Richad Barry to contribute to reviewing

- **Jeremy Bennett** to propose new GNU Tools project chair at the next meeting.

  - deferred to next meeting

- **all** existing new users need to switch to and try the new SDK release.

  - COMPLETE.

## Report back from TWG

Report from Rick O'Connor. New activity:

- potentially create a security task group

  - CORE-V Trusted MCU concept, dual core, big/little configuration using E20 core.
  - mostly open source, some proprietary IP

- Wally teaching processor

  - Harvey Mudd and Oklahoma State University
  - David Harris author of standard text book teaching practical chip design
  - uses a standard RISC-V core (Wally)
  - proposed to host as part of OpenHW

- Intel is now a member through the pathfinder team

## Reports from current projects

Active projects under the SW TG have provided a written report in advance. These reports can be found in the [project specific directories](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects) of the [core-v-sw](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw) repository.

- CORE-V GNU Tools - _vacant_

  - Zc* 0.70.4 now supported.
  - issue raised, to track upgrade to 1.0.0 when it is frozen.

- CORE-V FreeRTOS

  - still waiting on simulator setup to be worked out.

- CORE-V Clang/LLVM - Charlie Keaney and Zbigniew Chamski

  - 32-bit Clang/LLVM

    - no report this month (Charlie Keaney on vacation)

  - 64-bit Clang/LLVM: no report

- Hardware Abstraction Layer - Yunhai Shang and Olive Zhao

  - paused pending RVI standard agreement.

- CORE-V SDK/IDE - Hugh O'Keefe

  - new release planned for next week, including FreeRTOS integration.

- CORE-V Verilator modeling (HW TG project) - Jeremy Bennett

  - now restarted, with time allocated to Jeremy Bennett and Charlie Keaney to work on this. Goal is GDB server operational by end of November. Aim is also to support the CV32E40Pv2 project.

- QEMU for Core-V - WeiWei Li

  - Zc* 1.0.0rc5.6 is now suppported in latest version.

**Action:** All project leads to consider whether they can move forward to their next project gate.

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets monthly at 15:00 UK time on the second Monday of the month.

- 14 Nov 2022
- 15 Dec 2022 - potential face-to-face meeting at RV Summit TBC

A decision on whether to meeting monthly or every other month will be taken at
our November meeting.  These would be the dates for monthly meetings in 2023.

- 9 Jan 2023
- 13 Feb 2023
- 13 Mar 2023
- 10 Apr 2023
- 8 May 2023
- 12 Jun 2023
- 10 Jul 2023
- 14 Aug 2023
- 11 Sep 2023
- 9 Oct 2023
- 13 Nov 2023

## AOB

Jeremy Bennett, Chair\
Yunhai Shang, Vice-Chair
