# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Minutes

Monday 11 April 2022, 14:00 UTC

## Attendees and welcome new members

See separate [attendance register](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/blob/master/program/TWG-and-TG-Attendance-Tracking/TGSoftware_Attendance_2022.md)

Welcome Wu Xinlong from PLCT.

Apologies were received from Philipp Krones of Embecosm.

## Summary of actions

- **Duncan Bees** to prepare a draft roadmap of all existing projects for review at the next meeting.

  - held open for preparation of forward looking aspect of the roadmap.

- **Duncan Bees** to bring interested parties together to bring the Linux tool project being developed by Thales into visibility within the Software TG.

- **Mike Thompson** to complete the quick start guide for FreeRTOS on emulation, Xcelium simulation and Verilator.

  - work in progress, action remains open.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to roll forward GCC and Binutils/GDB to include the B extension support.

  - carried forward from previous meeting.

- **Duncan Bees** to have conversation with Hugh O'Keeffe, Robert Balas, Shterana Shopova and Richard Barry about moving CORE-V FreeRTOS project to Project Launch gate.  Meeting scheduled for 14 January at 15:00 UTC.

  - progressing, remains open pending completion.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to take CORE-V Verilator Modeling project through Project Launch gate.

  - carried forward from earlier meeting.

- **Duncan Bees** to reach out to Alexander Fedorov about status of the SDK project, since we haven't heard from him for a while.

- **Duncan Bees** to give an introduction to Kevin @ Thales to establish status of Clang/LLVM for CVA6.

**All** to email Rick O'Connor with name and address if you would like one of the AWS/Espressif boards for testing/development.

# Meeting topics

## Review of actions

- **Duncan Bees** to prepare a draft roadmap of all existing projects for review at the next meeting.

  - Duncan shared a draft of existing projects as a timeline milestone map. Not yet projected forward from now.
  - Some projects are overdue for their next gates (GNU tool chain, FreeRTOS).
  - **Action** Duncan Bees to bring interested parties together to bring the Linux tool project being developed by Thales into visibility within the Software TG.
  - Action held open pending forward looking roadmap.

- **Mike Thompson** to complete the quick start guide for FreeRTOS on emulation, Xcelium simulation and Verilator.

  - Have first version for Nexys A7, now being pipecleaned. Mike available to talk to anyone running into problems.
  - Updating to add Genesys 2.
  - Want to do with Verilator, stuck with the pseudotty program on his system.
  - Action remains open.

- **Mike Thompson**, **Florian Zaruba** & **Shteryana Shopover** to discuss technologies to link bitstreams and CLI repository code.

  - Would like to have downloads.openhwgroup.org with bitstreams and test programs to download.
  - Might be trying to manage something that doesn't need to be managed.
  - How to guarantee provenance of bitstreams and compatibility with software.
  - CORE-V MCU may now be stable enough to just put a bitstream up there.
  - Views from the meeting
    - stable bistream is enough. Still need some versioning, bitstreams should be associated with a git tag or hash. A changelog between versions would be helpful.
  - Action completed.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to roll forward GCC and Binutils/GDB to include the B extension support.

  - carried forward to next meeting.

- **Duncan Bees** to set up meeting(s) as necessary to take CORE-V GCC through project launch gate, targeting the TWG on 28 February 2022.

  - several meetings
  - needs a meeting to get over the goal line, Duncan Bees to set up with Jeremy Bennett.
  - target next TWG (25 April 2022).

- **Duncan Bees** to have conversation with Hugh O'Keeffe, Robert Balas, Shterana Shopova and Richard Barry about moving CORE-V FreeRTOS project to Project Launch gate.  Meeting scheduled for 14 January at 15:00 UTC.

  - several meetings
  - needs pushing over the line
  - Duncan Bees to set up meeting to close this out.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to take CORE-V Verilator Modeling project through Project Launch gate.

  - carried forward from earlier meeting.
  - Jeremy Bennett and Duncan Bees to meet
  - target May TWG

## Report back from TWG

Report by Duncan Bees.

- discussion around Software Bill of Materials and use of SPDX proposed by NXP.
  - Seems to be considerable interest from OpenHW Group members to adopt this for cores.
  - Met with Andrew Katz of Moorcrofts about OpenChain certification.
  - Going to form a community of interest.
  - Could form public domain best practice example for hardware artifacts.

- Continuous Integration on AWS
  - Overview of initiatives from Florian et al.
  - Still do all functional verification on Metrics platform.

- CVA6 passed PA gate.

## Reports from current projects

Active projects under the SW TG have provided a written report in advance. These reports can be found in the [project specific directories](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects) of the [core-v-sw](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw) repository.

### CORE-V IDE

No report from Alexander.

**Action** Duncan Bees to reach out to Alexander Fedorov about status of the SDK project, since we haven't heard from him for a while.

Report from Hugh O'Keefe (SDK). Suggestion that going forward SDK and IDE should report as one. Aiming to prepare an alpha release by end of April.

### Software Development Kit (SDK)

PL Gate needs to be done, but alpha release is a priority.

### CORE-V GNU Tools

Work by Unibo immediate branch support and testing are in their tree. Waiting to merge the work.

Work by PLCT has finished Zce development and working on tests. Also waiting to merge.

Merges will happen shortly after CORE-V repo roll forward.

### CORE-V FreeRTOS

Started porting FreeRTOS demos (blinky, more functionality). Not working yet, need access to Nexys A7 for ETH ZÃ¼rich.  But they do have Genesys 2 - new bitstreams now available.

### CORE-V Clang/LLVM

CV32E40P: No report

CVA6: No report.

**Action.** Duncan Bees to give an introduction to Kevin @ Thales to establish status of Clang/LLVM for CVA6.

### Hardware Abstraction Layer

No progress yet in past month. Alibaba T-Hear are doing plan for next year in April, then will know resources available and can prepare for Project Launch.

### CORE-V Verilator modeling (joint project with Hardware TG)

Verbal report from Jeremy Bennett. No progress since last month.

## AOB

Question from Rick O'Connor. As we march towards Embedded World, part of the demo is the AWS platform connecting via Espressif. Rick wants to know who wants one of sevel boards available for integration and testing.

**Action.** Email Rick O'Connor with name and address if you would like one of the AWS/Espressif boards for testing/development.

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets monthly at 15:00 UK time on the second Monday of the month.

- 9 May 2022
- 13 Jun 2022
- 11 Jul 2022
- 8 Aug 2022
- 12 Sep 2022
- 10 Oct 2022
- 14 Nov 2022

Noting how busy December can be, no meeting is scheduled in that month.


Jeremy Bennett, Chair\
Yunhai Shang, Vice-Chair
