# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Minutes

Monday 14 November 2022, 15:00 UTC

## Attendees and welcome new members

Welcome: Chunyu Liao, PLCT

See separate [attendance register](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/blob/master/program/TWG-and-TG-Attendance-Tracking/TGSoftware_Attendance_2022.md)

## Summary of actions

- **Duncan Bees** to bring interested parties together to bring the Linux tool project being developed by Thales into visibility within the Software TG.

  - Mike Thompson and Jean Roch Coulon are planning on-site launch of CVA6 at Thales in early January (in Marseilles). Good opportunity to close this issue.
  - Duncan to brief Thales on all the outstanding CVA6 software activities.

- **Mike Thompson** to complete the quick start guide for FreeRTOS on emulation, Xcelium simulation and Verilator.

  - now available, focusing on Emulation. Not yet updated for Xcelium and Verilator.

- **Duncan Bees** and **Joe Julicher** to have conversation with Hugh O'Keeffe, Robert Balas, Shterana Shopova and Richard Barry about moving CORE-V FreeRTOS project to Project Launch gate.  Meeting scheduled for 14 January at 15:00 UTC.

  - held open to next meeting
  - Joe Julicher to join the action to help Duncan with this.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to take CORE-V Verilator Modeling project through Project Launch gate.

  - carried forward. Anticipate completing this action in October/November time frame.
  - it would be clearer to rename as the GDB interface to Verilator project.

- **Duncan Bees** to give an introduction to Kevin @ Thales to establish status of Clang/LLVM for CVA6.

  - carried forward.

- **Yunhai Shang** and **Duncan Bees** to update CORE-V HAL plans to align with the RISC-V International strategy.

  - open, pending completion of plans later this yet.
  - Richad Barry to contribute to reviewing

- **Florian Zaruba** to create core-v-qemu mirror.

# Meeting topics

## Review of actions

(Includes updates from Duncan Bees post-meeting)

- **Duncan Bees** to prepare a draft roadmap of all existing projects for review at the next meeting.

  - COMPLETE, due to be presented at TWG and at RISC-V Summit Face-to-Face.

- **Duncan Bees** to bring interested parties together to bring the Linux tool project being developed by Thales into visibility within the Software TG.

  - Mike Thompson and Jean Roch Coulon are planning on-site launch of CVA6 at Thales in early January (in Marseilles). Good opportunity to close this issue.
  - Duncan to brief Thales on all the outstanding CVA6 software activities.

- **Mike Thompson** to complete the quick start guide for FreeRTOS on emulation, Xcelium simulation and Verilator.

  - now available, focusing on Emulation. Not yet updated for Xcelium and Verilator.

- **Duncan Bees** to have conversation with Hugh O'Keeffe, Robert Balas, Shterana Shopova and Richard Barry about moving CORE-V FreeRTOS project to Project Launch gate.  Meeting scheduled for 14 January at 15:00 UTC.

  - held open to next meeting
  - Joe Julicher to join the action to help Duncan with this.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to take CORE-V Verilator Modeling project through Project Launch gate.

  - carried forward. Anticipate completing this action in October/November time frame.
  - it would be clearer to rename as the GDB interface to Verilator project.

- **Duncan Bees** to give an introduction to Kevin @ Thales to establish status of Clang/LLVM for CVA6.

  - carried forward.

- **Yunhai Shang** and **Duncan Bees** to update CORE-V HAL plans to align with the RISC-V International strategy.

  - open, pending completion of plans later this yet.
  - Richad Barry to contribute to reviewing

- **Jeremy Bennett** to propose new GNU Tools project chair at the next meeting.

  - COMPLETE, see below.

- **All project leads** to consider whether they can move forward to their next project gate.

  - COMPLETE.

## Appointment of GNU Tools Project lead (5 minutes allocated)

Nandni Jamnadas of Embecosm was accepted as project lead, nem. con.

## Report back from TWG

SiLabs switching focus to CV32E40S rather than CV32E40X in short term.
Thales tighning focus on scope of CVA6, to define minimal product.

## Reports from current projects

Active projects under the SW TG have provided a written report in advance. These reports can be found in the [project specific directories](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects) of the [core-v-sw](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw) repository.

- CORE-V GNU Tools - Nandni Jamnadas

  - Issue of versioning in binutils-gdb and GCC (see below)
  - ELW and SIMD support in binutils-gdb (as version 2)

- CORE-V FreeRTOS

  - Nothing new

- CORE-V Clang/LLVM - Charlie Keaney and Zbigniew Chamski

  - 32-bit Clang/LLVM

    - Finished rebase of corev-llvm-project
	- Start implementing the version 2 instruction encodings

  - 64-bit Clang/LLVM: no report

- Hardware Abstraction Layer - Yunhai Shang and Olive Zhao

  - Paused pending RVI standard agreement.

- CORE-V SDK/IDE - Promod

  - Alpha-4 version released last Friday.

- CORE-V Verilator modeling (HW TG project) - Jeremy Bennett

  - now restarted, with time allocated to Jeremy Bennett and Charlie Keaney to work on this. Goal is GDB server operational by end of November. Aim is also to support the CV32E40Pv2 project.

- QEMU for Core-V - WeiWei Li

  - Nothing new. Waiting for upstream ratification
  - **Action** Florian Zaruba to create core-v-qemu mirror.

## How to specify CORE-V ISA extensions

We now have 8 ISA extensions, mostly with two variant encodings just for the CV32E40P version 1 and version 2 chips.  We need a consistent naming for these extensions and names for shorthand collections of extensions.

This is not a matter for just the Software Task Group, and there will be a dedicated meeting between Cores and Software Task Groups to reach a final decision. However it is appropriate for the Software Task Group to take this opportunity to provide input.

In discussion, the following comments were made
- `xcv` is more concise, but the branding of xcorev is beneficial
- should we just ditch all the v1 encodings, and have just a single encoding.
  - rationale is that CV32E40Pv1 never verified any extensions.
- `xcorevpulp` is nice because it tips towards ETH Zürich

## Frequency of meetings (5 minutes allocated)

Note that
- meetings are a committment
- but have an important role to remind people of their actions.
  - would need to prod things.
- could ask for project reports every month

The group decided to meet every two months.
- but monthly project reports.

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets bi-monthly at 15:00 UK time on the second Monday of odd-numbered months.  There is one remaining meeting in 2022.

- 15 Dec 2022: face-to-face meeting after RISC-V Summit (14:15 Pacific Time)

As noted, the group has decided to meet every two months, but circulate project reports every month. These are the dates for 2023.

| Date        | Activity                            |
| :---------- | :---------------------------------- |
| 9 Jan 2023  | Meeting and report                  |
| 13 Feb 2023 | Report only                         |
| 13 Mar 2023 | Meeting and report                  |
| 10 Apr 2023 | Report only                         |
| 8 May 2023  | Meeting and report                  |
| 12 Jun 2023 | Report only                         |
| 10 Jul 2023 | Meeting and report                  |
| 14 Aug 2023 | Report only                         |
| 11 Sep 2023 | Meeting and report                  |
| 9 Oct 2023  | Report only                         |
| 13 Nov 2023 | Meeting and report                  |
| 14 Dec 2023 | Face-to-face meeting TBC (Thursday) |

The December meeting depends on the face-to-face meeting taking place next year, and if so its date.

## AOB

Jeremy Bennett, Chair\
Yunhai Shang, Vice-Chair
