# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Agenda

Monday 8 August 2022

- 07:00-08:00 Pacific Time
- 10:00-11:00 East Coast Time
- 14:00-15:00 UTC
- 15:00-16:00 UK Time
- 16:00-17:00 Central European Time
- 22:00-23:00 Beijing Time

## Location

Zoom meeting.

- [us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761?pwd=M2kwRzNCUG82UFlJT0NMbnJPSXBCZz09](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761?pwd=M2kwRzNCUG82UFlJT0NMbnJPSXBCZz09)
- Meeting ID: 851 9441 6761
- Find your local number: [us02web.zoom.us/u/kuUW3yscL](https://us02web.zoom.us/u/kuUW3yscL)

# Agenda topics

## Register of attendance, introductions and apologies

We are recording attendance at meetings, so OpenHW Group can track membership in accordance with article 4 of the membership agreement. This matters particularly when email ballots are held, to ensure the voters represent member organizations who are active on the group. The attendance records are can be seen in the [program](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/tree/master/program) directory of the [core-v-docs repository](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs).

## Review of actions (15 minutes allocated)

- **Duncan Bees** to prepare a draft roadmap of all existing projects for review at the next meeting.

  - held open for preparation of forward looking aspect of the roadmap.

- **Duncan Bees** to bring interested parties together to bring the Linux tool project being developed by Thales into visibility within the Software TG.

  - held open.

- **Mike Thompson** to complete the quick start guide for FreeRTOS on emulation, Xcelium simulation and Verilator.

  - work in progress, action remains open.

- **Duncan Bees** to have conversation with Hugh O'Keeffe, Robert Balas, Shterana Shopova and Richard Barry about moving CORE-V FreeRTOS project to Project Launch gate.  Meeting scheduled for 14 January at 15:00 UTC.

  - progressing, remains open pending completion.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to take CORE-V Verilator Modeling project through Project Launch gate.

  - carried forward.

- **Duncan Bees** to give an introduction to Kevin @ Thales to establish status of Clang/LLVM for CVA6.

  - carried forward.

- **Weiwei Li** and **Duncan Bees** to meet to arrange make CORE-V QEMU a CORE-V project.

  - carried forward - meeting yet to take place

- **Action:** Yunhai Chang and Duncan Bees to update CORE-V HAL plans to align
  with the RISC-V International strategy.

  - RISC-V International CSI TG announced in July, still preparing plans, then will align.
  - held open

- **All** to contact Duncan Bees if they would like to be involved with OpenChain/SBOM work.

  - carried forward

## Project leads (5 minutes allocated)

As noted last month, Charlie Keaney of Embecosm has volunteered to take over maintenance and development of the 32-bit CORE-V Clang/LLVM.  In the absence of any other candidates, the chair proposes that Charlie be appointed CORE-V Clang/LLVM lead.

Maxim Blinov is leaving Embecosm to return to academic studies, and will therefore step down as GNU Tools project lead. Anyone with GNU Tools experience interested in taking over leadership of this project, including running the weekly conference calls is invited to put their name forward the chair, with a view to appointing a lead at our next meeting.

## Report back from TWG (5 minutes allocated)

Duncan Bees to report.

## Reports from current projects (15 minutes allocated)

Active projects under the Software Task Group will have provided a written report in advance (seet the [project specific directories](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects) of the [core-v-sw](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw) repository. We also have one project under the Hardware Task Group which also reports into us.

Each project leader is asked to present any key issues for which community input from the meeting is required.  Project leaders will also take any questions.

- CORE-V GNU Tools - Maxim Blinov
- CORE-V FreeRTOS - Robert Balas and Shteryana Shopova
- CORE-V Clang/LLVM - Charlie Keaney and Zbigniew Chamski
- Hardware Abstraction Layer - Yunhain Shang and Olive Zhao
- CORE-V SDK/IDE - Hugh O'Keefe
- CORE-V Verilator modeling (HW TG project) - Jeremy Bennett
- QEMU for Core-V - WeiWei Li

## Project management for software projects (15 minutes allocated)

Top level project oversight by the TWG is through a phased management process. The initial phases are:

- **Project Concept**, when the broad scope of what is being developed is understood, along with the market imperative for doing the project;

- **Project Launch**, when the engineering approach is understood, with a plan inplace and outline timescale; and

- **Project Approval**, when the project is fully understood and a resourced engineering plan with delivery dates is available.

Each of these phases is gated by a proposal which must be approved by the TWG. Thus providing oversight and ensuring quality of all OpenHW projects.

This doesn't work that well for software projects, particularly when they are porting well established open source software.  It also doesn't make sense to have a full process everytime we do a new version of a software project for a different chip.

Duncan Bees will present a proposed alternative approach for software projects.

## AOB

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets monthly at 15:00 UK Time on the second Monday of the month.

- 12 Sep 2022
- 10 Oct 2022
- 14 Nov 2022

Noting how busy December can be, I have again proposed no meeting in that month.


Jeremy Bennett, Chair\
Yunhai Shang, Vice-Chair
