# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Agenda

Monday 10 October 2022

- 07:00-08:00 Pacific Time
- 10:00-11:00 East Coast Time
- 14:00-15:00 UTC
- 15:00-16:00 UK Time
- 16:00-17:00 Central European Time
- 22:00-23:00 Beijing Time

## Location

Zoom meeting.

- [us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761?pwd=M2kwRzNCUG82UFlJT0NMbnJPSXBCZz09](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761?pwd=M2kwRzNCUG82UFlJT0NMbnJPSXBCZz09)
- Meeting ID: 851 9441 6761
- Find your local number: [us02web.zoom.us/u/kuUW3yscL](https://us02web.zoom.us/u/kuUW3yscL)

# Agenda topics

## Register of attendance, introductions and apologies

We are recording attendance at meetings, so OpenHW Group can track membership in accordance with article 4 of the membership agreement. This matters particularly when email ballots are held, to ensure the voters represent member organizations who are active on the group. The attendance records are can be seen in the [program](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/tree/master/program) directory of the [core-v-docs repository](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs).

## Review of actions (15 minutes allocated)

- **Duncan Bees** to prepare a draft roadmap of all existing projects for review at the next meeting.

  - held open - work still in progress.

- **Duncan Bees** to bring interested parties together to bring the Linux tool project being developed by Thales into visibility within the Software TG.

  - held open.

- **Mike Thompson** to complete the quick start guide for FreeRTOS on emulation, Xcelium simulation and Verilator.

  - work in progress, action remains open.

- **Duncan Bees** to have conversation with Hugh O'Keeffe, Robert Balas, Shterana Shopova and Richard Barry about moving CORE-V FreeRTOS project to Project Launch gate.  Meeting scheduled for 14 January at 15:00 UTC.

  - see agenda item on software process gates
  - Project Launch and Project Approval to be reviewed by Software TG (see later)

- **Jeremy Bennett** to take CORE-V Verilator Modeling project through Project Launch gate.

  - carried forward. Anticipate completing this action in September time frame.

- **Duncan Bees** to give an introduction to Kevin @ Thales to establish status of Clang/LLVM for CVA6.

  - carried forward.

- **Weiwei Li** and **Duncan Bees** to meet to arrange make CORE-V QEMU a CORE-V project.

  - in progress, goal is TWG meeting of 22 August.
  - **Action:** Share with SW TG via MM in advance

- **Yunhai Shang** and **Duncan Bees** to update CORE-V HAL plans to align with the RISC-V International strategy.

  - open, pending completion of plans later this yet.
  - Richad Barry to contribute to reviewing

- **Jeremy Bennett** to propose new GNU Tools project chair at the next meeting.

- **all** existing new users need to switch to and try the new SDK release.

## Report back from TWG (5 minutes allocated)

## Reports from current projects (15 minutes allocated)

Active projects under the Software Task Group will have provided a written report in advance (seet the [project specific directories](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects) of the [core-v-sw](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw) repository. We also have one project under the Hardware Task Group which also reports into us.

Each project leader is asked to present any key issues for which community input from the meeting is required.  Project leaders will also take any questions.

- CORE-V GNU Tools - _vacant_
- CORE-V FreeRTOS - Robert Balas and Shteryana Shopova
- CORE-V Clang/LLVM - Charlie Keaney and Zbigniew Chamski
- Hardware Abstraction Layer - Yunhain Shang and Olive Zhao
- CORE-V SDK/IDE - Hugh O'Keefe
- CORE-V Verilator modeling (HW TG project) - Jeremy Bennett
- QEMU for Core-V - WeiWei Li

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets monthly at 15:00 UK Time on the second Monday of the
month. I have proposed meetings for 2023, but as our projects mature, we may
want to ask whether we should be meeting less frequently.  We have, by
accident been meeting every two months recently.

- 14 Nov 2022

- 9 Jan 2023
- 13 Feb 2022
- 13 Mar 2022
- 10 Apr 2022
- 8 May 2022
- 12 Jun 2022
- 10 Jul 2022
- 14 Aug 2022
- 11 Sep 2022
- 9 Oct 2022
- 13 Nov 2022

Noting how busy December can be, I have again proposed no meeting in that month.

## AOB



Jeremy Bennett, Chair\
Yunhai Shang, Vice-Chair
