# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Minutes

Monday 9 May 2022, 14:00 UTC

## Attendees and welcome new members

See separate [attendance register](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/blob/master/program/TWG-and-TG-Attendance-Tracking/TGSoftware_Attendance_2022.md)

Welcome Weiwei Li of PLCT.

## Summary of actions

- **Duncan Bees** to prepare a draft roadmap of all existing projects for review at the next meeting.

  - held open for preparation of forward looking aspect of the roadmap.

- **Duncan Bees** to bring interested parties together to bring the Linux tool project being developed by Thales into visibility within the Software TG.

  - held open.

- **Mike Thompson** to complete the quick start guide for FreeRTOS on emulation, Xcelium simulation and Verilator.

  - work in progress, action remains open.

- **Duncan Bees** to have conversation with Hugh O'Keeffe, Robert Balas, Shterana Shopova and Richard Barry about moving CORE-V FreeRTOS project to Project Launch gate.  Meeting scheduled for 14 January at 15:00 UTC.

  - progressing, remains open pending completion.

- **Richard Barry** to bring forward FreeRTOS Project Launch documents to next TWG meeting.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to take CORE-V Verilator Modeling project through Project Launch gate.

  - carried forward from earlier meeting.

- **Duncan Bees** to give an introduction to Kevin @ Thales to establish status of Clang/LLVM for CVA6.

  - carried forward.

- **Hugh O'Keefe** to arrange an appropriate README in the old IDE repository to guide others to the SDK repository.

- **Duncan Bees** to work with the Ashling team to bring the SDK project into the OpenHW Group Eclipse process.

- **All** to contact Jeremy Bennett if you wish to take over leadership of Clang/LLVM for CV32E40P.

- **Action:** Yunhai Chang and Duncan Bees to update CORE-V plans to align with the RISC-V International strategy.

- **All** to contact Duncan Bees if they would like to be involved with OpenChain/SBOM work.

- **Weiwei Li** and **Duncan Bees** to meet to arrange making this a CORE-V project.

# Meeting topics

## Review of actions

- **Duncan Bees** to prepare a draft roadmap of all existing projects for review at the next meeting.

  - held open for preparation of forward looking aspect of the roadmap.

- **Duncan Bees** to bring interested parties together to bring the Linux tool project being developed by Thales into visibility within the Software TG.

  - held open.

- **Mike Thompson** to complete the quick start guide for FreeRTOS on emulation, Xcelium simulation and Verilator.

  - definition means FreeRTOS CLI test package runs on Nexys A7 and Genysis II
  - work in progress, action remains open.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to roll forward GCC and Binutils/GDB to include the B extension support.

  - done by Maxim Blinov.

- **Duncan Bees** to have conversation with Hugh O'Keeffe, Robert Balas, Shterana Shopova and Richard Barry about moving CORE-V FreeRTOS project to Project Launch gate.  Meeting scheduled for 14 January at 15:00 UTC.

  - progressing, remains open pending completion.
  - **Action** Richard Barry to bring forward FreeRTOS Project Launch documents to next TWG meeting.
  - still need to get working on Nexys A7 board (see Mike Thompson action above).

- **Jeremy Bennett** to take CORE-V Verilator Modeling project through Project Launch gate.

  - carried forward from earlier meeting.

- **Duncan Bees** to reach out to Alexander Fedorov about status of the SDK project, since we haven't heard from him for a while.

  - complete.

- **Duncan Bees** to give an introduction to Kevin @ Thales to establish status of Clang/LLVM for CVA6.

  - carried forward.

- **All** to email Rick O'Connor with name and address if you would like one of the AWS/Espressif boards for testing/development.

   - complete.

## Report back from TWG

Quiet meeting, not much to report.

## Reports from current projects

Active projects under the SW TG have provided a written report in advance. These reports can be found in the [project specific directories](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects) of the [core-v-sw](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw) repository.

### Software Development Kit (SDK) / IDE

First alpha release done on 5 May 2022. Also have first pass of the CORE-V SDK quick start guide.  Downloads (Windows, Linux) available on the OpenHW download page.

Next month want feedback on the alpha release and guidance on what is needed for the second alpha release. Also need committer support for the key developers at Ashling.

Some issues reported with Ubuntu installation, but under diagnosis.

Old IDE repository is no longer needed and needs to be deprecated.

**Action:** Hugh O'Keefe to an arrange appropriate README in the old IDE repository to guide others to the SDK repository.

The SDK project is not yet part of the OpenHW Group Eclipse process.

**Action:** Duncan Bees to work with the Ashling team to bring the SDK project into the OpenHW Group Eclipse process.

### CORE-V GNU Tools

University of Bologna team working on rebasing on the updated code base.

PLCT have finished Zc* work. Need to resolve a small number of linker regressions.

### CORE-V FreeRTOS

Nothing to add to written report.

### CORE-V Clang/LLVM

CV32E40P: No report

- Philipp Krones is leaving Embecosm this month. Volunteers are invited to take over leadership of Clang/LLVM for CV32E40P.
- **Action:** All to contact Jeremy Bennett if you wish to take over leadership of Clang/LLVM for CV32E40P.

CVA6: No report.

### Hardware Abstraction Layer

Report from Yunhai Shang

- Following strategy of RISC-V International, anticipate announcement very shortly from their CSI task group. Joint effort of Aliba T-Head and VRULL.
- Roadmap slide presented by Yunhai.

Questions:

- This will be known as the CSI SDK, how does this relate to the CORE-V SDK?
- The proposed development board is the Lichee D1 Dock board. Can we use the Nexys A7 board?

**Action:** Yunhai Chang and Duncan Bees to update CORE-V plans to align with the RISC-V International strategy.

### CORE-V Verilator modeling (joint project with Hardware TG)

Verbal report from Jeremy Bennett. No progress since last month.

## Software Bill of Materials (SBOM) and OpenChain

After a number of meetings, OpenHW Group is looking to extend its processes using OpenChain and specifically to be able to produce a SBOM for each project. Eclipse Foundation is now actively engaging in this area.

Andrew Katz or Moorcrofts (open source IP lawyer). Andrew is preparing an outline for OpenChain certification for next TWG meeting.

**Action:** All to contact Duncan Bees if they would like to be involved with OpenChain/SBOM work.

## QEMU for CORE-V

The QEMU fast emulator is widely used for RISC-V development, particularly for tool chain verification.  The team at PLCT have patches to support some of the extensions now being developed for CORE-V, notably Zc* extensions in CV43E41P.

Weiwei Li of PLCT gave an update. This project has three areas.

- Zfinx support
- Support for custom ISAs
- Support for custom SoCs such as CORE-V MCU
  - Zc* support
  - currently being developed.

Comments:

- awesome work - not just CORE-V MCU, but custom ISA support
- would be a great addition to the CORE-V SDK
- good to see running PULP tests from core-v-verif
  - 3 failures would be appreciated as issues (Weiwei Li

The PLCT team would be pleased for this to be a CORE-V project.

**Action:** Weiwei Li and Duncan Bees to meet to arrange making this a CORE-V project.

## AOB

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets monthly at 15:00 UK time on the second Monday of the month.

- 13 Jun 2022 (Yunhai Shang to chair)
- 11 Jul 2022
- 8 Aug 2022
- 12 Sep 2022
- 10 Oct 2022
- 14 Nov 2022

Noting how busy December can be, no meeting is scheduled in that month.


Jeremy Bennett, Chair\
Yunhai Shang, Vice-Chair
