# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Minutes

Monday 14 February 2022, 15:00 UTC

## Attendees and welcome new members

See separate [attendance register](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/blob/master/program/TGSoftware_Attendance_2022.md)

Apologies were received from: Philipp Krones

Welcome: Qihan Cai from PLCT Lab

## Summary of actions

- **Duncan Bees** to prepare a draft roadmap of all existing projects for review at the next meeting.

- **Duncan Bees** to check-in with Robert Balas to try to resolve FreeRTOS issues [#149](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-mcu/issues/149) and [#115](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-mcu/issues/115).

- **Maxim Blinov** to roll forward GCC to include the B extension support.

- **Duncan Bees** to set up meeting(s) as necessary to take CORE-V GCC through project launch gate, targeting the TWG on 28 February 2022.

- **Duncan Bees** to have conversation with Hugh O'Keeffe, Robert Balas, Shterana Shopova and Richard Barry about moving CORE-V FreeRTOS project to Project Launch gate.  Meeting scheduled for 14 January at 15:00 UTC.

  - In progress, open until completed.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to take CORE-V Verilator Modeling project through Project Launch gate.

  - Deferred from previous meeting.

- **Greg Martin** to review issues [#149](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-mcu/issues/149) and [#115](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-mcu/issues/115) raised by Robert Balas for the FreeRTOS project.

  - Robert is unable to run the CORE-V MCU in software emulation at present

- **Duncan Bees** to check-in with Robert Balas to try to resolve FreeRTOS issues [#149](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-mcu/issues/149) and [#115](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-mcu/issues/115).

# Meeting topics

## Review of actions

- **All** to suggest software projects to **Duncan Bees** for consideration for the roadmap.

  - QEMU proposal from Wei Wu.
  - **Action:** Duncan Bees to prepare a draft roadmap of all existing projects for review at the next meeting.

- **Olive Zhao** to convene a standalone meeting to discuss requirements for the HAL, which we bring in as many HAL experts as possible. Be sure to invite the AWS team (Richard Barry, Joe Julicher).

  - Requirements agreed, will be based on CSI from Alibaba T-Head.
  - Will be standardize by RISC-V International.

- **Maxim Blinov** to roll forward GCC to include the B extension support.

  - Still on Maxim's todo list.

- **Maxim Blinov** assisted by **Duncan Bees** to take CORE-V GNU Tools project through Project Launch gate.

  - **Action:** Duncan Bees to set up meeting(s) as necessary to take CORE-V GCC through project launch gate, targeting the TWG on 28 February 2022.
  - Action closed and replaced by new action.

- **Duncan Bees** to have conversation with Hugh O'Keeffe, Robert Balas, Shterana Shopova and Richard Barry about moving CORE-V FreeRTOS project to Project Launch gate.  Meeting scheduled for 14 January at 15:00 UTC.

  - Meetings have taken place, but needs more work to bring to completion.
  - Aspire to TWG on 28 February 2022, but may not be achievable
  - Open until completed.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to take CORE-V Verilator Modeling project through Project Launch gate.

  - Still open.

- **Greg Martin** to review issues [#149](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-mcu/issues/149) and [#115](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-mcu/issues/115) raised by Robert Balas for the FreeRTOS project.

  - Robert is unable to run the CORE-V MCU in software emulation at present
    - **Action:** Duncan to check-in with Robert to try to resolve.
  - Action held open pending confirmation of resolution.

## Report back from TWG

Report by Duncan Bees.

Project gates:

- Project Concept for UVM Verification model out for voting
- Project Launch review for CVE20 core out for voting
- Project Launch/Plan approved for CVE41P, awaiting updated documentation

Jer√¥me (chair) presented the roadmap.

## Reports from current projects

Active projects under the SW TG have provided a written report in advance. These reports can be found in the [project specific directories](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects) of the [core-v-sw](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw) repository.

### CORE-V IDE

Started to prepare infrastructure for CORE-V Marketplace

### CORE-V GNU Tools

Two new patches

- code generation for post-increment/pre-decrement created and reviewed. Should go to pull-request
- PLCT is working on patch for `Zcee` support.

### CORE-V FreeRTOS

Not much to report, beyond the meetings to plan the future. Added functionality for RISC-V has been upstreamed.

### CORE-V Clang/LLVM

CV32E40P: No report

- Issue [#19](https://github.com/openhwgroup/corev-llvm-project/issues/19) raised noting that the code base has not been rolled forward for some time.  This is due to lack of active development.  Volunteers to pick up this work very welcome.

CVA6: No report.

### Hardware Abstraction Layer

See comments above under Actions

### Software Development Kit (SDK)

Hugh O'Keefe is creating an updated document with more detail on the tasks needed. Being reviewed biweekly (Wednesday 16:30 UTC)  with an open group of interested engineers (see the Mattermost SDK channel).

### CORE-V Verilator modeling (joint project with Hardware TG)

No written report this month. Lack of available engineering effort has delayed work.  However the first milestone (full software interface via simulated JTAG) is now complete.

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets monthly at 07:00 Pacific Time on the second Monday of the month.

- 14 Mar 2022
- 11 Apr 2022
- 9 May 2022
- 13 Jun 2022
- 11 Jul 2022
- 8 Aug 2022
- 12 Sep 2022
- 10 Oct 2022
- 14 Nov 2022

Noting how busy December can be, no meeting is scheduled in that month.


Jeremy Bennett, Chair\
Yunhai Shang, Vice-Chair
