# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Minutes

Monday 14 March 2022, 15:00 UTC

## Attendees and welcome new members

See separate [attendance register](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/blob/master/program/TGSoftware_Attendance_2022.md)

Apologies were received from Hugh O'Keeffe of Ashling and Philipp Krones of Embecosm.

## Summary of actions

- **Duncan Bees** to prepare a draft roadmap of all existing projects for review at the next meeting.

  - carried forward.

- **Mike Thompson** to complete the quick start guide for FreeRTOS on emulation, Xcelium simulation and Verilator.

- **Mike Thompson**, **Florian Zaruba** & **Shteryana Shopover** to discuss technologies to link bitstreams and CLI repository code.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to roll forward GCC and Binutils/GDB to include the B extension support.

  - action extended to include Binutils/GDB and transferred from Maxim Blinov.

- **Duncan Bees** to set up meeting(s) as necessary to take CORE-V GCC through project launch gate, targeting the TWG on 28 February 2022.

  - in progress, carried forward.

- **Duncan Bees** to have conversation with Hugh O'Keeffe, Robert Balas, Shterana Shopova and Richard Barry about moving CORE-V FreeRTOS project to Project Launch gate.  Meeting scheduled for 14 January at 15:00 UTC.

  - in progress, carried forward.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to take CORE-V Verilator Modeling project through Project Launch gate.

  - carried forward.

# Meeting topics

## Review of actions

- **Duncan Bees** to prepare a draft roadmap of all existing projects for review at the next meeting.

  - deferred to next month.

- **Duncan Bees** to check-in with Robert Balas to try to resolve FreeRTOS issues [#149](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-mcu/issues/149) and [#115](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-mcu/issues/115).

  - Mike Thompson gave an explanation of [#149](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-mcu/issues/149).  He is putting explanations together for emulation, hardware simulation with Xcelium and Verilator modeling.  A work in progress on Mike's private fork, and he will be happy to share with anyone who could try it.  Will eventually be merged into the official `core-v-mcu` repository.  Struggling with Verilator, and would appreciate others to try this - has instructions but can't get them to work.  Poll of priorities, requested Verilator support (1), Nexys A7 support (1)

    - **Action:** Mike Thompson to complete the quick start guide for FreeRTOS on emulation, Xcelium simulation and Verilator.

  - Noted that both Shteryana Shopova and Mike Thompson both have bitstreams for Nexys A7 that supports FreeRTOS.  Challenge of linking the bitstreams to the matching CLI repository.  GitHub CI/CD functionality can associate an artifact with a particular bit repo, which might solve this for you.

    - **Action:** Mike Thompson, Florian Zaruba & Shteryana Shopover to discuss technologies to link bitstreams and CLI repository code.

  - Noted that [#115](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-mcu/issues/115) is closed. Robert Balas flagged in the repo.

- **Maxim Blinov** to roll forward GCC to include the B extension support.

  - action transferred to Jeremy Bennett

- **Duncan Bees** to set up meeting(s) as necessary to take CORE-V GCC through project launch gate, targeting the TWG on 28 February 2022.

  - Duncan Bees met with Maxim Blinov and made progress. Next step meeting with Jeremy Bennett.

- **Duncan Bees** to have conversation with Hugh O'Keeffe, Robert Balas, Shterana Shopova and Richard Barry about moving CORE-V FreeRTOS project to Project Launch gate.  Meeting scheduled for 14 January at 15:00 UTC.

  - In progress, making progress. Richard Barry leading work to support the SDK. Keep open until done

- **Jeremy Bennett** to take CORE-V Verilator Modeling project through Project Launch gate.

  - Already at launch gate. No action required.

## Report back from TWG

Report by Duncan Bees.

- main action was to review 2022 plan appoved gate for CVA6. Going out to a vote.

## Reports from current projects

Active projects under the SW TG have provided a written report in advance. These reports can be found in the [project specific directories](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects) of the [core-v-sw](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw) repository.

### CORE-V IDE

No report.

### CORE-V GNU Tools

Summary from Maxim Blinov.  Two projects in progress.

- University of Bologna work on pre-/post-increment and decrement is progressing through review.

- Zc* implementation from PLCT is in progress, but needs compiler rebase.

### CORE-V FreeRTOS

Took latest vanilla FreeRTOS with Richard Barry's changes and tested it on NexysA7 FPGA. Blinky seems to mostly work, but one LED won't blink. Now easier to run on CORE-V MCU without changes to upstream code.

### CORE-V Clang/LLVM

CV32E40P: No report

CVA6: No report.

### Hardware Abstraction Layer

Verbal report from Olive Zhao. Three actions from project launch preparation meeting in February in progress. Plan to follow-up more in April.

### Software Development Kit (SDK)

Presentation by Duncan Bees in absence of Hugh O'Keeffe.

In preparation for Project Launch gate, most tasks have been assigned and will be led by Hugh O'Keeffe.  The SDK will be based on Ashling RiscFree IDE.

- Embecosm will lead the GNU tool chain
- Richard Barry will lead the FreeRTOS component
- Quicklogic will lead on the SymbiFlow tooling
- Documentation is not assigned
- Example applications is not assigned.
- Ashling will lead Installer development
- Amazon will lead the Expresslink work
- Overall adding to the CORE-V download page likely Florian Zaruba

Olive Zhao noted the need for IP-XACT or similar to specify registers is the same problem to be solved by the HAL, and this needs to be coordinated.

### CORE-V Verilator modeling (joint project with Hardware TG)

Verbal report from Jeremy Bennett. No progress since last month.

## AOB

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets monthly at 15:00 UK time on the second Monday of the month.

- 11 Apr 2022
- 9 May 2022
- 13 Jun 2022
- 11 Jul 2022
- 8 Aug 2022
- 12 Sep 2022
- 10 Oct 2022
- 14 Nov 2022

Noting how busy December can be, no meeting is scheduled in that month.


Jeremy Bennett, Chair\
Yunhai Shang, Vice-Chair
