# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Minutes

Monday 11 July 2022, 14:00 UTC

## Attendees and welcome new members

Welcome:

- Nandni Jamnadas from Embecosm who will be working on CORE-V GCC for CV32E40P
- Charlie Keaney who will be working on CORE-V Clang/LLVM for CV32E40P
- Anjali Verma from Thales who is working on FreeRTOS for CVA6 with Ajali Gedam

See separate [attendance register](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/blob/master/program/TWG-and-TG-Attendance-Tracking/TGSoftware_Attendance_2022.md)

Apologies were received from Duncan Bees.

## Summary of actions

- **Duncan Bees** to prepare a draft roadmap of all existing projects for review at the next meeting.

  - held open for preparation of forward looking aspect of the roadmap.

- **Duncan Bees** to bring interested parties together to bring the Linux tool project being developed by Thales into visibility within the Software TG.

  - held open.

- **Mike Thompson** to complete the quick start guide for FreeRTOS on emulation, Xcelium simulation and Verilator.

  - work in progress, action remains open.

- **Duncan Bees** to have conversation with Hugh O'Keeffe, Robert Balas, Shterana Shopova and Richard Barry about moving CORE-V FreeRTOS project to Project Launch gate.  Meeting scheduled for 14 January at 15:00 UTC.

  - progressing, remains open pending completion.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to take CORE-V Verilator Modeling project through Project Launch gate.

  - Carried forward.

- **Duncan Bees** to give an introduction to Kevin @ Thales to establish status of Clang/LLVM for CVA6.

  - carried forward.

- **Weiwei Li** and **Duncan Bees** to meet to arrange make CORE-V QEMU a CORE-V project.

  - Carried forward - meeting yet to take place

- **Action:** Yunhai Chang and Duncan Bees to update CORE-V HAL plans to align
  with the RISC-V International strategy.

  - RISC-V International CSI TG announced in July, still preparing plans, then will align.
  - held open

- **All** to contact Duncan Bees if they would like to be involved with OpenChain/SBOM work.

  - Carried forward

# Meeting topics

## Note on previous meeting

Jeremy Bennett apologised for the confusion over vidoeconferencing meaning that last month's meeting could not take place.

## Review of actions

- **Duncan Bees** to prepare a draft roadmap of all existing projects for review at the next meeting.

  - held open for preparation of forward looking aspect of the roadmap.

- **Duncan Bees** to bring interested parties together to bring the Linux tool project being developed by Thales into visibility within the Software TG.

  - held open.

- **Mike Thompson** to complete the quick start guide for FreeRTOS on emulation, Xcelium simulation and Verilator.

  - work in progress, action remains open.

- **Duncan Bees** to have conversation with Hugh O'Keeffe, Robert Balas, Shterana Shopova and Richard Barry about moving CORE-V FreeRTOS project to Project Launch gate.  Meeting scheduled for 14 January at 15:00 UTC.

  - progressing, remains open pending completion.

- **Richard Barry** to bring forward FreeRTOS Project Launch documents to next
  TWG meeting.

  - Completed at TWG meeting on 27 June.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to take CORE-V Verilator Modeling project through Project Launch gate.

  - Carried forward.

- **Duncan Bees** to give an introduction to Kevin @ Thales to establish status of Clang/LLVM for CVA6.

  - carried forward.

- **Hugh O'Keefe** to arrange an appropriate README in the old IDE repository
  to guide others to the SDK repository.

   - Complete.

- **Duncan Bees** to work with the Ashling team to bring the SDK project into the OpenHW Group Eclipse process.

   - Complete.

- **Weiwei Li** and **Duncan Bees** to meet to arrange make CORE-V QEMU a CORE-V project.

  - Carried forward - meeting yet to take place

- **Action:** Yunhai Chang and Duncan Bees to update CORE-V HAL plans to align
  with the RISC-V International strategy.

  - RISC-V International CSI TG announced in July, still preparing plans, then will align.
  - held open

- **All** to contact Duncan Bees if they would like to be involved with OpenChain/SBOM work.

  - Carried forward

- **All** to contact Jeremy Bennett if you wish to take over leadership of Clang/LLVM for CV32E40P.

  - Complete. Charlie Keaney will be proposed at next meeting to take over this rôle.

## Report back from TWG

Hugh O'Keefe summarized the meeting. Three projects were sent for voting

- CORE-V MCU DevKit Project Launch

  - Proposed by Joe Julicher, Amazon

- CORE-V-COPRO VERIF Project Concept

  - Proposed by Moritz Imfeld, Virginie Moser, Stéphane Emery, CSEM

- CORE-V L1 Data Cache Project Concept

	- Proposed by César Fuguet Tortolero, CEA

## Reports from current projects

Active projects under the SW TG have provided a written report in advance. These reports can be found in the [project specific directories](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects) of the [core-v-sw](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw) repository.

- CORE-V GNU Tools - Maxim Blinov

  - postinc/predec being rebased by University of Bologna, one issue with test optimizing instruction away.
  - PLCT team adding more tests for Zc* support.

- CORE-V FreeRTOS - Robert Balas and Shteryana Shopova

  - written report submitted

- CORE-V Clang/LLVM - TBD and Zbigniew Chamski

  - no change on 32-bit
  - no report on 64-bit

- Hardware Abstraction Layer - Yunhai Shang and Olive Zhao

   - RISC-V International has established SIG to standardize CSI for RISC-V
   - Yunhai will make plans, and will include CORE-V, as potential first implementation.
   - Olive noted a while since last meeting on HAL project, need to review Olive's role with Vincent Chu (project lead) and Yunhai.
   - Expect most work done by Alibaba group, Olive to validate for non-Alibaba usage.

- CORE-V SDK/IDE - Hugh O'Keefe

    - Second alpha release
	- Promodkumar is now a committer
	- Demonstrated at Embedded World
	- Working on CSR and peripheral support

- CORE-V Verilator modeling (HW TG project) - Jeremy Bennett

    - on hold, expected to restart beginning of September.

- Qemu for Core-V - WeiWei Li

   - In past two months have fixed bugs for Zc* support
   - Have added support for several devices

## AOB

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets monthly at 15:00 UK time on the second Monday of the month.

- 8 Aug 2022
- 12 Sep 2022
- 10 Oct 2022
- 14 Nov 2022

Noting how busy December can be, no meeting is scheduled in that month.


Jeremy Bennett, Chair\
Yunhai Shang, Vice-Chair
