# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Minutes

Monday 10 January 2022, 14:00 UTC

## Attendees and welcome new members

See separate [attendance register](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/blob/master/program/TGSoftware_Attendance_2022.md)

Apologies were received from

Welcome to Maxim Blinov of Embecosm

## Summary of actions

- **All** to suggest software projects to **Duncan Bees** for consideration for the roadmap.

- **Olive Zhao** to convene a standalone meeting to discuss requirements for the HAL, which we bring in as many HAL experts as possible. Be sure to invite the AWS team (Richard Barry, Joe Julicher).

- **Maxim Blinov** to roll forward GCC to include the B extension support.

- **Maxim Blinov** assisted by **Duncan Bees** to take CORE-V GNU Tools project through Project Launch gate.

- **Duncan Bees** to have conversation with Hugh O'Keeffe, Robert Balas, Shterana Shopova and Richard Barry about moving CORE-V FreeRTOS project to Project Launch gate.  Meeting scheduled for 14 January at 15:00 UTC.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to take CORE-V Verilator Modeling project through Project Launch gate.

- **Greg Martin** to review issues [#149](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-mcu/issues/149) and [#115](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-mcu/issues/115) raised by Robert Balas for the FreeRTOS project.

  - Action held open pending confirmation of resolution.

# Meeting topics

## Report from Rick O'Connor

Over Christmas Rick explored how easy the CORE-V world is to use by bringing up the MCU using the Embecosm tool chain within the Quicklogic Eclipse IDE and then running FreeRTOS.  There is a new ambition to get AWS ExpressLink supported, so CORE-V MCU can be available over AWS in time for Embedded World in June.

## CORE-V GNU Tools project lead (5 minutes allocated)

The meeting expressed its thanks for the work of Jessica Mills as project lead since the project's inception.  Jessica has now left Embecosm and has stood down as GNU Tools project lead.

Maxim Blinov of Embecosm, an experienced GCC engineer, was appointed as the new project lead.

## Review of actions

- **Olive Zhao** to convene a standalone meeting to discuss requirements for the HAL, which we bring in as many HAL experts as possible.

  - Deferred to next month. Be sure to invite the AWS team (Richard Barry, Joe Julicher).

- **Jessica Mills** to roll forward GCC to include the B extension support.

  - Transferred to **Maxim Blinov**.

- **Jessica Mills** to take CORE-V GNU Tools project through Project Launch gate.

  - Transferred to **Maxim Blinov**, to be assisted by **Duncan Bees**.

- **Duncan Bees** to have conversation with Robert Balas, Shterana Shopova and Richard Barry about moving CORE-V FreeRTOS project to Project Launch gate.

  - To be progressed in the next week. Robert Balas noted that some things are still not clear for this project. To include Hugh O'Keeffe in this project. Proposed meeting date is 14 January at 15:00 UTC.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to take CORE-V Verilator Modeling project through Project Launch gate.

  - Deferred to next month.

- **Duncan Bees** and **Jeremy Bennett** to identify speakers who can inform our discussion on AI.

  - Following on EclipseCon BoF session, Davide is organizing a session. **Jeremy Bennett** to be included in the discussion to bring in the expertise with the CORE-V AI extensions developed with Southampton and Dresden Universities.

- **Greg Martin** to review issues [#149](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-mcu/issues/149) and [#115](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-mcu/issues/115) raised by Robert Balas for the FreeRTOS project.

  - Action held open pending confirmation of resolution.

## Report back from TWG

Report by Duncan Bees. Last session (13 December 2021) was a roadmapping meeting. Looking at potential future projects.

- CHERI protection model
- Tiny FPU
- Next steps on Chiplet
- Fault tolerant cores
- Out of order cores
- Multicore interconnect
- UVM reference model
- QEMU

The meeting noted we need to also consider Linux and GVSoC as future projects

**Action:** All to suggest software projects to **Duncan Bees** for consideration for the roadmap.

## Reports from current projects

Active projects under the SW TG have provided a written report in advance.

### CORE-V IDE

See [report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/ide/2021/monthly-report-2021-12-13.md)

Summary for the past year:
- several prototypes, including for PlatformIO
- provided hooks for commercial extensions
- still lacking solid progress on examples to debug
- consider project "on standby"
- resource limited
- gave several talks

### CORE-V GNU Tools

No report is provided this month, since Jessica Mills has stood down.

Summary for the past year
- All extensions in binutils/gdb, with work by University of Bologna and Embecosm
- 3 out of 5 extension groups have some GCC support
- Upstreaming depends on vendor specific relocations
  - know how to do this, needs RISC-V community buy-in

### CORE-V FreeRTOS

See [report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects/freertos/2022/monthly-report-10-jan-22.md) by Robert Balas and Shteryana Shopova in the Software TG repository.

Summary for the past year:
- FreeRTOS available from CORE-V GitHub
- after latest hardware changes, some updates will be needed

### CORE-V Clang/LLVM

CV32E40P: Summary for the past year:
- some extensions implemented by Philipp Krones
- University of TÃ¼bingen implemented all PULP extensions mid-2021
- project has been moribund since then
- on todo list is testing

CVA6: No report.

### Hardware Abstraction Layer

No progress this month, waiting on discussion of requirements being driven by Olive Zhao.

### Software Development Kit (SDK)

Summary for last year:
- kicked off SDK concept
- initial powerpoint highlighting key points
  - software and also necessary hardware features
- project concept proposal approved
  - further breakdown of detailed tasks to be done
- can then identify OpenHW members to pick up these tasks

### CORE-V Verilator modeling (joint project with Hardware TG)

Summary for the year
- running very late

There has been no progress on this project since our last meeting, and there is thus no report this month.

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets monthly at 07:00 Pacific Time on the second Monday of the month.

- 14 Feb 2022
- 14 Mar 2022
- 11 Apr 2022
- 9 May 2022
- 13 Jun 2022
- 11 Jul 2022
- 8 Aug 2022
- 12 Sep 2022
- 10 Oct 2022
- 14 Nov 2022

Noting how busy December can be, no meeting is scheduled in that month.


Jeremy Bennett, Chair\
Yunhai Shang, Vice-Chair
