# OpenHW Software Task Group Meeting Agenda

Monday 14 November 2022

- 07:00-08:00 Pacific Time
- 10:00-11:00 East Coast Time
- 15:00-16:00 UTC
- 15:00-16:00 UK Time
- 16:00-17:00 Central European Time
- 23:00-24:00 Beijing Time

## Location

Zoom meeting.

- [us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761?pwd=M2kwRzNCUG82UFlJT0NMbnJPSXBCZz09](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85194416761?pwd=M2kwRzNCUG82UFlJT0NMbnJPSXBCZz09)
- Meeting ID: 851 9441 6761
- Find your local number: [us02web.zoom.us/u/kuUW3yscL](https://us02web.zoom.us/u/kuUW3yscL)

# Agenda topics

## Register of attendance, introductions and apologies

We are recording attendance at meetings, so OpenHW Group can track membership in accordance with article 4 of the membership agreement. This matters particularly when email ballots are held, to ensure the voters represent member organizations who are active on the group. The attendance records are can be seen in the [program](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/tree/master/program) directory of the [core-v-docs repository](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs).

## Review of actions (15 minutes allocated)

- **Duncan Bees** to prepare a draft roadmap of all existing projects for review at the next meeting.

- **Duncan Bees** to bring interested parties together to bring the Linux tool project being developed by Thales into visibility within the Software TG.

- **Mike Thompson** to complete the quick start guide for FreeRTOS on emulation, Xcelium simulation and Verilator.

- **Duncan Bees** to have conversation with Hugh O'Keeffe, Robert Balas, Shterana Shopova and Richard Barry about moving CORE-V FreeRTOS project to Project Launch gate.  Meeting scheduled for 14 January at 15:00 UTC.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to take CORE-V Verilator Modeling project through Project Launch gate.

- **Duncan Bees** to give an introduction to Kevin @ Thales to establish status of Clang/LLVM for CVA6.

- **Yunhai Shang** and **Duncan Bees** to update CORE-V HAL plans to align with the RISC-V International strategy.

- **Jeremy Bennett** to propose new GNU Tools project chair at the next meeting.

  - Complete. See below.

- **All project leads** to consider whether they can move forward to their next project gate.

  - Complete.

## Appointment of GNU Tools Project lead (5 minutes allocated)

Nandni Jamnadas of Embecosm is proposed to lead this project. Nandni recently worked with PLCT to complete support for Zc* 0.7.5 and is currently working on the CV32E40Pv2 compiler tool chain.

## Report back from TWG (5 minutes allocated)

## Reports from current projects (15 minutes allocated)

Active projects under the Software Task Group will have provided a written report in advance (seet the [project specific directories](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw/blob/master/projects) of the [core-v-sw](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-sw) repository. We also have one project under the Hardware Task Group which also reports into us.

Each project leader is asked to present any key issues for which community input from the meeting is required.  Project leaders will also take any questions.

- CORE-V GNU Tools - Nandni Jamnadas (proposed)
- CORE-V FreeRTOS - Robert Balas and Shteryana Shopova
- CORE-V Clang/LLVM - Charlie Keaney and Zbigniew Chamski
- Hardware Abstraction Layer - Yunhain Shang and Olive Zhao
- CORE-V SDK/IDE - Hugh O'Keefe
- CORE-V Verilator modeling (HW TG project) - Jeremy Bennett
- QEMU for Core-V - WeiWei Li

## How to specify CORE-V ISA extensions (10 minutes allocated)

We now have 8 ISA extensions, mostly with two variant encodings just for the CV32E40P version 1 and version 2 chips.  We need a consistent naming for these extensions and names for shorthand collections of extensions.

This is not a matter for just the Software Task Group, and there will be a dedicated meeting between Cores and Software Task Groups to reach a final decision. However it is appropriate for the Software Task Group to take this opportunity to provide input.

## Frequency of meetings (5 minutes allocated)

As our projects mature, it may be appropriate to meet less frequently.  Over the summer, we met by accident of holidays and technology every two months, without detriment to the projects.  The meeting is invited to consider whether we should move to a 2-month cycle from January 2023.

## Dates for future meetings

The task group meets monthly at 15:0A0 UK Time on the second Monday of the month.

- 15 Dec 2022 (in person on Thursday at RISC-V Summit)

For 2023 (subject to decision on Frequency)

- 9 Jan 2023
- 13 Feb 2023
- 13 Mar 2023
- 10 Apr 2023
- 8 May 2023
- 12 Jun 2023
- 10 Jul 2023
- 14 Aug 2023
- 11 Sep 2023
- 9 Oct 2023
- 13 Nov 2023

Noting how busy December can be, I have again proposed no meeting in that month for 2023, although if RISC-V Summit is in December, we may have a meeting in person.

## AOB



Jeremy Bennett, Chair\
Yunhai Shang, Vice-Chair
